PCC Educational Philosophy

The educational philosophy of PCHS is the product of the school's long history as the first and the oldest Chinese-Filipino secondary school in the country today. It is inspired by several intertwining factors: the unique heritage of the Chinese-Filipinos, their inherent oriental worldview, and the influence of many people—the alumni, administrators, teachers, service personnel, parents and students—who have had dedicated their loyalty to the school.

The educational philosophy of PCHS professes that:

Man is an incessant learner. He is in constant pursuit of learning and self-improvement. He by nature thirsts for knowledge and information. He thinks, reasons, questions and seeks to know the truth. Education is thus man's lifelong pursuit.

Education is universal. It does not discriminate nor distinguish the learners from one and the other. Hence, equal educational opportunity should be provided to everyone regardless of wealth, race, status or sex. Every learner who seeks education at Philippine Cultural High School is thus accorded with an equal opportunity to excel to the limits of his/her potential and ability.

The aim of education is to develop man so as to enable him to become useful citizen who will contribute to the building of just and humane society. Education develops the learner's potential and ability. More importantly, however, education cultivates the learner's physical, emotional, social, intellectual and moral aspects to the fullest so that he/she will become useful and productive civic-conscious citizen who embodies a deep sense of love and concern for the welfare of society.

Education trains man to see himself as an entity who shares an essential continuity with the experiences of other men throughout history. Education enriches man's sense of the past. It gives him firm foundation from where he can ground his cultural roots and establish a confident sense of identity.

Education teaches man to become self-reliant. Education is a practical preparation for life. As the Chinese proverb puts it: "If you give a man a fish, you'll feed him for a day; but if you teach him how to fish, you'll feed him for his entire life." Education thus prepares man how to live life productively and meaningfully. Education enables him to live and cope with the changes and challenges of the rapidly changing times.

本校的办学宗旨

菲律宾侨中学院是全国第一所华文中学。本校的办学宗旨与下列几点有着密切的关系：华菲独特的传统；东方人的世界观；关心本校发展的各方面人士—校友、行政人员、老师、服务人员、家长和学生。

菲律宾侨中学院的办学宗旨：

人不断地追求知识。为了提高自己的水平，应努力学习。人的求知欲是天生的。思考，推理，提出疑问，寻找真理，终身追求教育。

教育是普及的。不论经济状况、种族、文化背景、性别，每一个人都享有获得教育的权利。到菲律宾侨中学院学习的学生将拥有平等的机会，发掘自己的潜能，提高自己的能力。

教育的目标是培育人成为国家有用的公民，为建设一个公正、人道的社会而作出贡献。学生的才能因为教育才得以发展。教育更进一步培养学生的身心，使他们在德、智、体、群、美等方面都得到全面的发展，将来成为热爱国家、关心社会的好公民。

通过教育，借鉴历史，丰富自己。教育加强人们对过去的认知，使他们拥有厚实的文化背景，对自己的身份加以肯定。

教育使人自力更生。教育是为了准备面对人生。俗语说：“给人一条鱼只能养活他一天；教人如何捕鱼可以养活他一生。”有了教育，就能过得有意义。教育不仅使人懂得如何面对变化无穷的世界，更使人懂得如何应付各种生活的挑战。

----------------------

PCC Mission

Our Mission

Formation of well-rounded Chinese-Filipino youth appreciative of their cultural heritage and responsive to the changing times.

学校使命
本校旨在培养全面发展、能适应时代需求并以祖先传统文化为傲的菲华青年。

----------------------

PCC Manila Campus located at 1253 Jose Abad Santos Ave., Tondo, Manila Philippines 1012
Telephone number: (+63-2) 8252 - 0501 to 03 ( trunkline connecting to all departments )
Fax number: (+63-2) 8254 - 0814
Mobile number / viber: (+63977) 625 5880
Wechat ID: PCCMainCampus

PCC Caloocan Campus located at 175 8th Ave. Extension, Grace Park, Caloocan Philippines
Telephone number: (+63-2) 8363 - 3529 and 8364 - 3730 ( trunkline connecting to all departments )
Fax number: (+63-2) 8361 - 7237
Mobile number / viber: (+63905) 279 7927
Wechat ID: PCCCaloocanCampus

PCC College located at 46 M. Cuenco St. Corner D. Tuazon St., Quezon City, Philippines
Telephone number: (+63-2) 8241- 5522 ( trunkline connecting to all departments )
Mobile number / viber: (+63942) 822 1923

PCC Office of the Alumni Association located at 1253 Jose Abad Santos Ave., Tondo, Manila (Ground Floor)
Telephone number: (+63-2) 8256-2814
Fax number: (+63-2) 8252-0482

Email address:
     for Manila Campus: info.manila@philippineculturalcollege.edu.ph
     for Caloocan Campus: info.caloocan@philippineculturalcollege.edu.ph
     for College Campus: college.dept@cultural.edu.ph

----------------------

PCC stands for "Philippine Cultural College"
PCC指的是"菲律宾侨中学院"

----------------------

School History
I – Foreword
Our school was established in 1923. It has weathered all sorts of crises, and has withstood the destructive war, fire, and natural calamities. With the support of its loyal alumni and the generous people in the community, it has survived and developed into what it is today. In 1967, an Annex campus was constructed in Caloocan City.
II – The Pioneering Stage
    Our school was originally named Philippine Chinese High School.
    It was established by the Philippine Chinese Educational Association in 1923, under the able leadership of Mr. Carlos Palanca, Sr.
    With 47 students, classes were first held using the two classrooms of Anglo Chinese School (now Tiong Se Academy).
    Classes started on June 27, thus the date became the foundation day of the school.
    In 1937, the first batch of alumni organized the PCHS Alumni Association, with Mr. Go Seng Guan elected as the first president. He was succeeded by Mr. Kong Kuan.
    In 1938, our school was authorized by the Educational Association to organize a board of trustees which would take over the management of the school. Mr. Go Chong Beng was the first chairman of the board.                          
    For 15 years, Mr. Chow Cing Chian, Mr. Tsai Xiang Chang, Mr. Tiu See Eng, Mr. King She Hiong, Mr. Shu Seng Shan, and Mr. Huang Meng Kuei served as school principal one after another.
III – Surmounting Difficulties
    In 1939, Dr. Teng Chiu Huang served as the 7th school principal.
    In 1940, a new school building was constructed along Jose Abad Santos Street. Classes were held both at the new building and at the old building of Anglo Chinese School.
    In January 1942, the Japanese Imperial Army invaded the City of Manila. The new school building was forcibly occupied by the Japanese troops. Classes were suspended.                   
    In May 1945, our school was the first one within the city to reopen after the war.
    In 1948, expansion of the Abad Santos school building was completed. The old school building was turned over to Anglo Chinese School.
    On May 2, 1949, at 11:30 in the evening, a neighborhood fire brought disaster to the school. The whole school building, together with all the important records and papers, and facilities were burned to ashes.                
    Under the leadership of Dr. T.C. Huang and Mr. Sy Eng, the president of the Educational Association and at the same time the chairman of the Board of Trustees, efforts were exerted and donations from various sectors of the Chinese community were gathered. On November 11 of that same year, a new school building was finally completed.
IV – The Struggling Years
    On November 11, 1960, Dr. T.C. Huang passed away. He served as the principal for 20 years.
    On December 8 of that same year, the Board of Trustees appointed Mr. Go Seng Guan as the 8th principal of the school.
    In 1961, using the funds from Dr. T. C. Huang Memorial Foundation, the school bought a 10,000 square meter Caloocan Campus property in Caloocan City.
    On November 8, 1963, Mr. Sy Eng, the chairman of the Board of Trustees, passed away. Mr. Chung Tiong Tay succeeded him.
    In 1967, the Department of Education approved the construction of an Caloocan campus in Caloocan City. Classes were held in June of that same year, with more than 300 students.                  
    In 1976, the government filipinized all Chinese schools in the Philippines. Our school was renamed Philippine Cultural High School.
    Since its founding, Philippine Cultural High School used to offer only high school education. But with the changing of times, both the Manila and the Caloocan campuses started offering pre-school and elementary education during the 70s.
    The activities of the Alumni Association were suspended due to the uncertainty of times. PCHS Alumni Coordinating Committee, with Mr. Marcos Chua as the liaison officer, was organized instead to help contact alumni from all places. In 1976, the Alumni Association was re-organized, with Dr. Chuang Chong Chian as the president.
    In 1978, the Alumni Association successfully assisted the Board of Trustees in the fund raising campaign for the expansion project of the Caloocan campus.
V – Development Stage
    In the 80s, the Board of Trustees, the Alumni Association, and the school authorities realized the imperative need for further development in order to meet the demands of the changing times. Taking the suggestion of the principal, Mr. Go Seng Guan, the reconstruction of the school building in the Manila campus started under the leadership of Mr. Chung Tiong Tay, the chairman of the Board of Trustees. After five years of patience and hardwork, a towering new school building proudly stood along Jose Abad Santos Street.                                  
    On January 11, 1986, while the construction of the main school building was on its peak, Mr. Go Seng Guan unfortunately passed away. He was 80 years old. He served the school for 50 years.
    In that same year, the Board of Trustees appointed Dr. Fernando Gan as the 9th principal of the school. Mr. Emilio Gan was appointed assistant principal of Manila Campus while Ms. Susana Bairan was appointed as the assistant principal of the Caloocan Campus respectively.
    In June 1988, the new school building in the Manila campus was inaugurated. To commemorate this event, the cultural show “An Odyssey” was staged.
    After the completion of the new school building, the president of the Alumni Association, Mr. John Tan, spearheaded the fund-raising campaign for the “PCHS Faculty and Staff Mutual Aid Fund”. Through the concerted efforts and support of the alumni, and other generous donors, Php20 million were collected.
    Since then, the alumni were active again in putting up all kinds of endowments for the school. These endowments have provided countless scholarships, training and development grants, which improved not only the pedagogical skills of the teachers but also facilities and educational equipment of the school.
    In 1989, the Board of Trustees organized the PCHS Educational Foundation to ensure the effective management of these endowments.
    In 1989, Dr. Fernando Gan had to resign as principal because of failing health. The Board of Trustees promoted Mr. Emilio Gan as the 10th principal of the school. Ms. Susana Bairan remained the assistant principal.  
    In 1990, realizing that the quality of Chinese education had deteriorated, and that the instructional materials had become old and obsolete, Mr. Chung Tiong Tay, the chairman of the board, used his personal money to hire experts to revise and prepare instructional materials that would suit the needs of the local students. With this, Mr. Gan introduced “Teaching / Learning Chinese as a Secondary Language”, the latest pedagogy developed specifically for non-native speakers.
    In 1991, spearheaded by the several members of the Board of Trustees and directors of the Alumni Association, the Philippine Chinese Education Research Center was established. It was tasked to promote reforms in the Chinese language teaching within the country. A 10-million peso seed fund was collected from the alumni and generous patrons.
    To uplift the quality of education and improve the instructional facilities, our school applied for PAASCU. Both the Manila and the Caloocan campuses were granted Level II accreditation status for five years.
    After Dr. Chuang Chong Chian, the Alumni Association went under the leadership of Mr. Ang Cheng Tionsu, Ms. Bee Keng Elena Cu Uy Gam, Mr. John Tan, Ms. Mary Lim, Mr. Eduardo Chua, Ms. Pilar Ongking, Dr. Tan King King, Ms. Janet Kopio, Mr. Alfredo Lu, Mr. Peter Gaisano, Mr. Sy Uliong, Mr. Angel Tan and the incumbent Ms. Diana To. They have all contributed significantly to the alma mater and the Alumni Association.

----------------------

In 1991, spearheaded by the several members of the Board of Trustees and directors of the Alumni Association, the Philippine Chinese Education Research Center was established. It was tasked to promote reforms in the Chinese language teaching within the country. A 10-million peso seed fund was collected from the alumni and generous patrons.
    To uplift the quality of education and improve the instructional facilities, our school applied for PAASCU. Both the Manila and the Caloocan campuses were granted Level II accreditation status for five years.
    After Dr. Chuang Chong Chian, the Alumni Association went under the leadership of Mr. Ang Cheng Tionsu, Ms. Bee Keng Elena Cu Uy Gam, Mr. John Tan, Ms. Mary Lim, Mr. Eduardo Chua, Ms. Pilar Ongking, Dr. Tan King King, Ms. Janet Kopio, Mr. Alfredo Lu, Mr. Peter Gaisano, Mr. Sy Uliong, Mr. Angel Tan and the incumbent Ms. Diana To. They have all contributed significantly to the alma mater and the Alumni Association.
    After An Odyssey, the school came up with other equally remarkable performances, such as The Blooming Sunflowers (1990), D' Little Twinkling Stars (1992), Salinlahi (1993), Pagdiriwang (1998), Tomorrow's Promise (2000), PCHS at 80 (2003), and The Golden Cradle (2005), and March On, PCHS (2008) etc.
    In 1994, Ms. Susana Bairan, the assistant principal, retired from office. She had served the school untiringly for 27 years. Upon her retirement, she was appointed as a member of the Board of Trustees. At the same time, the Board of Trustees appointed Mr. Antonio O as the Officer-In-Charge (OIC) of the Caloocan campus.
    In 1994, the Board of Trustees passed a resolution to construct a modern 4-story Kindergarten Building on the Caloocan campus.   
    In 1995, the Kinder Day Care was established, earning the patronage of the parents.
    In 1999, a Science Building was constructed on the Caloocan campus.
    After more than 30 years of selfless dedication to his beloved alma mater, Mr. Chung retired as the chairman of the Board of Trustees in May 2000. Mr. John Tan succeeded him as the chairman of the Board of Trustees.
    In 2001, Mr. Antonio O retired as the OIC of the Caloocan campus. The Board of Trustees appointed Ms. Yolanda Que as the administrative head of the Caloocan campus until 2008.                  
    In 2002, Dr. Chuang Chong Chian succeeded Mr. John Tan as the chairman of the Board of Trustees. At the same time, the Board appointed Dr. Sining Marcos Kotah as the administrative head of the Manila campus, assisting the principal in taking charge of the Manila campus.
    Aside from developing its curriculum, the school also established sister school relations with schools in China like Hua Qiao University, Jin Jiang Nan Qiao Middle School, Shi Shi No. 8 Middle School, Shi Shi No. 3 Middle School, Shi Shi Experimental School, Qiao Sheng Middle School, Ying Lin Middle School, etc. Both parties have established a long term relation, interacting regularly, helping each other towards the continuous improvement of their educational standards.
    In 2004, Mr. Eduardo Chua succeeded Dr. Chuang Chong Chian as the chairman of the Board of Trustees.             
    In 2006, Ms. Bee Keng Elena Cu Uy Gam succeeded Mr. Eduardo Chua, and became the first female chairman of the Board of Trustees. During her term, she started working on the application for the opening of the college department.
    In 2008, Ms. Pilar Ongking succeeded Ms. Bee Keng Elena Cu Uy Gam as the chairman of the Board of Trustees. Mr. Emilio Gan, after 38 years of dedicated service to the school, retired from office. He was appointed as a member of the B.O.T.
    On the same year, the school opened its college and changed its name to Philippine Cultural College (PCC). At the same time, the school changed its organizational structure, with the president being the highest in office and a vice president each for the college and the basic education departments. Dr. Lily Go was named president of Philippine Cultural College and Dr. Sining Marcos Kotah as vice president of the secondary, elementary and kinder departments of both the Manila and the Caloocan campuses.
    In 2009, Dr. Lily Go resigned as President due to personal reasons. She was succeeded by Dr. Polly Wee Sy.
    Through the years, the school has actively involved itself in the implementation of the Chinese language curricular reform in the country. In 2009, it was awarded the title “Chinese Language Demonstration School” by the Overseas Chinese Affairs Office of the State Council of the People's Republic of China.
    A new college building was proposed, to be constructed on a lot donated by Mr. Benito Cu and Ms. Elena Cu Uy Gam along D. Tuazon Street corner M. Cuenco Street in Quezon City. Ground-breaking ceremony was held on January 15, 2012.
    In that same year, Mr. Angel Tan succeeded Ms. Pilar Ongking as the chairman of the Board of Trustees.
    The construction of the new college building went into full swing. Alumni responded by giving generous donations.
    In 2015, Mr. Jimmy Tang succeeded Mr. Angel Tan as the chairman of the Board of Trustees.
    In 2018, Mr. Jacinto Ng succeeded Mr. Jimmy Tang as the chairman of the Board of Trustees.
    In the same year, the College Department shifted to follow a trimester academic calendar.
VI – Future Perspective
          Philippine Cultural College holds a glorious past, a progressive present and a bright future. With the development of modern technology, the enrichment of the pool of educators, and the advancement of the quality of education, PCC equips young individuals with a rich cultural heritage and the skills to become competitive professionals in their respective fields in the future.
          The opening of the college marks the beginning of a new chapter in the history of PCC. The college department continues to attract enrollees and the secondary, elementary and kinder departments remain steadfast in their commitment to provide quality education to the pupils / students. Philippine Cultural College carries the important responsibility as “the vanguard of civilization”. It is tasked to provide trilingual education, to propagate the Chinese-Filipino culture, and to nurture the hearts and minds of the youth. At present, everybody in the school and all the alumni are united as one, treading vigorously, and striding into the future. PCC pledges to contribute more to the society and to our country.

----------------------

校史简介

菲律宾侨中学院，简称侨中，创建于一九二三年，是华人在菲律宾开办的第一所华文中学。将近一百年来，经过一代又一代侨中人与社会贤达人士的艰苦努力和奋勇拼搏，现已成为集幼儿园、小学、中学、大学于一体的完整的综合教育体系。总校位于马尼拉市，分校位于加洛干市。本校是菲律宾英、中、菲三种语言教学的重要基地，具有多元文化和中华民族传统的特色。

先贤创校毕路蓝缕，群手展足；后人继业育衣轩食，励精图治。本校的历史是一部艰苦创业、奋力开拓、勇往直前的历史。本校经历了草创、克难、奋进、发展四个时期，成就灿烂，硕果辉煌，为侨中人所自豪，为非华社会所骄傲。

一）草创时期

一九二三年在时任菲律宾华侨教育会会长陈迎来的领导下，创立了本校，原名为菲律宾华侨中学。初办时借用中西学校两间教室，开始时只有四十七位学生。于当年六月七日开学上课，因此把这一天订为本校校庆纪念日。一九三七年第一代校友发起组织校友会，庄村保任首任会长，后来由邝钧继任。一九三八年教育会授权本校组织校董会，自管校政，吴宗明任第一任董事长。十五年期间，本校校长一职先后由周行健、蔡成章、张时英、龚诗熊、苏行三及黄孟奎等六位担任。

二）克难时期

一九三九年聘请黄澄秋博士为第七任校长。一九四〇年在阿福仙道示街建立一座简陋新校舍，学生分别在中西旧校舍及新校舍上课。一九四二年一月，日军入侵马尼拉市，新校舍被日军占据并遭破坏，当时学校停办。大战结束后，一九四五年五月本校最先复课。一九四八年扩建阿福仙道示校舍，旧校舍归还中西学校。一九四九年五月二日午夜，被邻火烧灭，全部文件及设备付之一炬。在校长黄澄秋及时将宿舍全长兼本校董事长施性水的领导下，竭尽全力，策划募捐，同年十一月十一日新校舍竣工。

三）奋进时期

一九六〇年十一月十一日，担任二十年校长的黄澄秋不幸在职病故。同年十二月八日校董会宣布庄材保继任第八任校长。一九六一年校董会用黄澄秋校长纪念基金在加洛干市购得一万平方公尺地皮，以备本校扩展之用。一九六三年十一月八日董事长施性水不幸逝世，庄长泰校友接任。一九六七年本校获教育部特许在加洛干市设立分校。同年六月招生开学，学生仅三百多名。一九七六年政府全面强化侨校，本校改名为“菲律宾文化中学”（Philippine Cultural High School）。本校本来是一所纯粹中学，七十年代同时局变化，为了适应环境，总分校都附设幼儿园及完全小学。一九七六年校友会恢复组织，由庄中坚校友出任复会首任理事长。在这之前校友会因时局关系停止活动。后来组织“校友联络委员会”，负责联络校友，推荐蔡派铿为主任。一九七八年校友会配合校董会，发动扩建分校校舍募捐活动，顺利完成这一项重大使命。

四）发展时期

八十年代校董会、学校当局及校友会为进一步发展母校，以符合时代的要求，在庄村保校长建议及庄长泰董事长的领导下，发动重建总校校舍工程。经五年的艰苦努力，一座巍峨壮观的校舍，终于屹立在阿福仙道示街。一九八六年一月十一日，正当总校重建工程进入如火如荼之际，庄校长不幸因病逝世，享年八十高龄，服务本校五十年。同年校董会委任颜长江校友为本校第九任校长，颜长城及李慈善为副校长。一九八八年三月校董会接受广大校友的建议，把校名改成“菲律宾侨中学院”。同年六月举行新校舍落成典礼，并主持大型校史歌舞剧《侨中颂》演出。校舍建设后，校友会理事长陈玉星认为学校除改善设备之外，当务之急是提高教师福利。校友会配合校董会发动教职员福利基金的筹集，在全体校友及社会热心人士支持下，筹款高达两千万元。设立教职员福利基金之后，校友们又踊跃回校设立各种基金，资助教师培训、奖励教师、改进教学、扩充设备及提供奖助学金等等，以协助母校发展。为妥善管理及运用这些基金，校董会于一九八九年组织“菲律宾侨中学院教育基金会”。一九八九年颜长江校长因健康问题辞职，校董会升任颜长城校友为第十任校长，李慈善校友续任副校长。

一九九〇年庄长春董事长鉴于学生华文程度日益低落，深信材料陈旧是原因之一，因此独资聘请专人，进行编纂一套适合本地中小学专用的华语课本。华语作为第二语言教学的改革方向从此受到关注。一九九一年庄校委会及校友会的鼓励下，本校数字同仁发起组织“菲律宾华教中心”，积极推动华语教学改革工作，并获广大侨中校友及华社热心教育人士捐献一千万元基金作为活动费用。为继续提高教学品质，强化教学设备，本校加入菲律宾大专院校鉴定协会（PAASCU）为会员，目前总、分校均被评为三级达标优等学校。本校校友会复旦理事长陈正中坚外，继任者还有庄中枢、杨美琼、陈玉兰、刘莉莉、蔡国明、李淑敏、陈柳卿、李丽芬、吕水莲、施嘉辉、施雨良、陈松山、高平平、施润力、施文界、李长城、梁淑英及现任施祥云等校友，他们都在任内为母校及校友合作出卓越的贡献。本校继《侨中颂》演出后，先后于一九九〇年推出《荣花盛开》，一九九二年《育新苗》，一九九三年《菲华颂》，一九九八年《走向新世纪》，二〇〇〇年《春蕾乍放》，二〇〇三年《爱我侨中》，二〇〇五年《金色的摇篮》，二〇〇八年《前进侨中》等大型歌舞文艺演出。

一九九四年，主持分校校政达七年的李慧善副校长荣退，受校委会聘任为校董。校董会同时委任邱荣禧为分校总主任，协助校长主持分校校政。一九九四年校董会通过议案，在加洛千分校建筑一座幼儿园现代化专用四层楼的教学楼。一九九五年首创幼儿园日托班，深受家长的欢迎。一九九九年校董会又在加洛千分校兴建一座科学楼。三十多年来，庄长春董事长对母校贡献巨大，母校在他的领导下迅速发展。他于二〇〇〇年五月荣退，由陈玉兰继任董事长。二〇〇一年邱荣禧总主任荣退。校董会聘任李美缘为分校行政主任，任期到二〇〇八年。二〇〇二年校董会接届，庄中坚任董事长。同时聘任蒋艺木为总校行政主任，协助校长处理总校核务。多年来，除了积极开展校政以外，本校还与中国一些学校缔结成为姊妹学校，建立了友好关系。这些学校包括中国华侨大学、晋江南侨中学、石狮八中、石狮三中、石狮中英文实验学校、侨声中学、英林中学等。双方定期交流，长期合作，相互促进，共同提高。

二〇〇四年校室会改造，落园明任董事长。二〇〇六年落园明初任，杨美琼继任董事长，成为本校第一位女董事长。在任期内，她积极筹备学校中办学的事情。二〇〇八年杨美琼初任，李淑敏继任董事长。校长颜长成已退休年龄，按校例规定荣休。颜长成校长服务在校三十八年，任劳任怨，贡献卓越，受校室会聘任为校室。同一年开办大学部。校室会聘任吴少鸣为校长，并升任总校行政主任蔡艺水为副校长，负责总分校中小学生幼儿园一切校务。二〇〇九年，吴少鸣校长因个人原因辞职还乡，校室会聘任黄晓芳为校长。一直以来，本校都积极推动学校改革，于二〇〇九年被中国国务院侨务办公室授予“华文教育示范学校”称号。大学部学生人数逐年增加，总校校舍不敷使用。董事邱宗波及名誉董事长杨美琼优伶相随附顺市一块二千五百年方米地成长建大学楼。新校舍于二〇一二年一月十五日举行奠基仪式。二〇一二年李淑敏初任，陈松山继任董事长。二〇一五年陈松山初任，董尚真继任董事长。大学楼也于二〇一五年竣工并于六月正式开课。同一年总分校正式开办高中课程。计顺市校区两年后随着电开办高中课程。二〇一六年校室会聘任蔡美英为分校副校长、杨建才为计顺市校区副校长。后来聘任杜荣常为大学部总主任。二〇一八年董尚真初任，黄瑞昭继任董事长。同一年大学部校历改成一年三期。二〇二〇年新冠疫情暴发期间，总校与福建省泉州培元中学建立友好学校关系。两校高中生举行线上友好班级交流活动；培元中学教师通过虚拟平台为总校中文部实验班授课。二〇二一年总校与四川省乐山市实验小学建立友好学校关系。该校选派教师为总校小学部进行华语网课教学工作。

美好前景

菲律宾侨中学院肩负着“为菲中文明代向导”的重任，以发展英、中、菲三语教学，宣扬民族文化，培植青年为职者。既有辉煌的过去，也有发达的现在，更有美好的未来。随着现代建设的改善，教师队伍的充实，教学品质的提高，本校将造就出更多具有中华文化气质、具备全球竞争能力的优秀人才。全校上下团结一心，众志成城，与校友携手并肩，踔厉奋发，努力为国家和社会作出更大的贡献。

----------------------

PCC School Objectives

The Kindergarten Objectives

PCC Kinder Department aims for the total development of pre-school children into productive, independent and confident learners aware of their cultural heritage. It aims to develop love for learning by providing children with a child-centered environment that promotes exploration and creativity.

The Grade School Objectives

In the light of the school's philosophy of education, vision and mission, the Grade School Department endeavors to help pupils to:

Acquire basic knowledge and develop fundamental skills, values and attitudes in preparation for their secondary education;
Cultivate correct values and put into practice desirable social attitudes;
Communicate effectively and proficiently in oral and written Filipino, English and Chinese;
Develop their critical thinking and creativity skills;
Appreciate their Chinese-Filipino heritage and use it for their total development as individuals;
Imbue the love of country and concern for their fellow countrymen;
Gain awareness of social and environmental concerns in the local, national and global contexts.

The High School Objectives

In the light of the school's philosophy of education, vision and mission, the High School Department endeavors to help students to:

Develop communication skills and critical thinking in preparation for their tertiary education;
Promote their physical and mental health in preparation for coping with real life situations;
Acquire vocational knowledge and skills in preparation for gainful employment and for making intelligent career choice in the future;
Appreciate and cherish their culture, customs and traditions as both Chinese and Filipinos;
Strengthen their heritage as Chinese-Filipinos and deepen their concern and involvement in promoting the growth, development and welfare of the nation;
Develop the ideals of democracy, equality, self-reliance, self-discipline, civic consciousness as well as other values that will promote a healthy, enlightened and morally upright citizenry for national development and progress.

The College Objectives

In the light of the school's philosophy of education, vision and mission, the College Department endeavors to help students to:

Attain excellence in learning through quality program and value integration in every academic discipline;
Equip students with knowledge and skills in modern technology;
Instill quality research projects;
Develop responsible and productive member of the family, school, and society;
Build proactive and innovative leaders;
Provide multi-cultural learning environment through dynamic interaction among members of the academic community;
Promote progressive innovation and change for individual advancement, national development and global competitiveness;
Establish linkages and network among local and international institutions/organizations in the academe and industry;
Adapt dual-learning system through practicum internship and alliance;
Inculcate core values such as diligence, honesty, integrity, respect, courage, compassion and equality.

幼儿园的教育目标：侨中学院幼儿园学龄前孩子的总发展目标是“坚持以孩子为中心”，注重孩子“体、智、德、美、劳”的全面发展，努力培养出“独立自信”、“探索创新”，具有多元文化和中华民族传统特色的新生代。

小学的教育目标：

    学好基础知识，培养基本技能以及正确的价值观，为日后踏入中学铺路；

    培养并应用正确的社会价值观；

    能够使用通顺流利的菲文、英文和华文跟别人沟通；

    培养尖锐以及有创造性的思维能力；

    认同菲律宾华人的优良传统，使得学童得以全面发展；

    灌输爱国主义和民族主义思想；

    关心社会，放眼世界。

中学的教育目标：

    培养交际技能，提供判断能力，为大学教育作准备；

    增强体质，拥有健康的思想，以应付实际的日常生活；

    获取职业知识及技能，以备将来就业及选择事业之需；

    不忘本源，热爱菲中文化与传统；

    巩固菲华民族传统，深切关注并参与促进国家的成长、发展及福利的工作；

    培养民主、平等、自立、自律、自觉及其它正确的观念，成为国家发展及进步正直有为的公民。

----------------------

PART II
Academic Standards

Section 1: The School Calendar

    The school follows the calendar prescribed by the Department of Education (DepEd).

    Each school year has class days prescribed by DepEd, inclusive of class days which might be subsequently suspended due to holidays and calamities. The school year starts in June and ends in March.

    The school year is divided into two (2) semesters or four (4) quarters:

        For Kinder, it consists of a First Semester and a Second Semester; for Grade School (GS) and Junior High School (JHS), the First Semester includes the First and Second Grading Periods, and the Second Semester includes the Third and Fourth Grading Periods; for Senior High School (SHS), each semester is divided into a Midterm and a Final period.

Section 2: Schedule of Classes

    Classes are held from Mondays to Fridays. In some instances, remedial and special classes are held during Saturdays or after Chinese classes. Some student activities are also held after class dismissal or during Saturdays, Sundays or holidays.

    Unless a pupil / student is taking a special / remedial class or is required to come to school by the teacher, he / she will not be allowed to enter the school premises during Saturdays, Sundays or holidays.

    Pupils / Students, who wish to use any of the school facilities for practices, etc. during Saturdays and after class hours, should first secure approval from the concerned department before making arrangements with the Maintenance Officer. No pupil / student will be allowed to enter the campus without the permit from the Maintenance Officer. Likewise, no pupil / student will be allowed to conduct any activity without the presence of any teacher or school staff.

    CLASS HOURS:

        Class hours are: Kinder: 07:30 a.m. – 04:00 p.m.; Grade School (GS): 07:15 a.m. – 04:15 p.m.; Junior High School (JHS): 07:15 a.m. – 04:25 p.m.; Senior High School (SHS): 07:15 a.m. – 04:30 p.m.

N.B.: (1) The warning bell rings at 7:10 a.m. every day. Flag ceremony starts at 7:15 a.m.
(2) Grade School and High School pupils / students are required to attend the morning assembly as scheduled.
(3) Grade School and High School pupils / students are not allowed to leave the campus during recess and lunch break. Pupils / students may bring their own food to school. Snacks and lunch sets are also available at the school cafeteria.

    A school day begins with the flag ceremony and ends with the flag retreat. All pupils / students are required to attend both.

Section 3: Suspension of Classes during School and Legal Holidays

    Classes and offices are automatically suspended during school and legal holidays. Except when special arrangements are made with proper school authorities, the school is closed during holidays.

    During times of emergency, classes may be suspended, canceled or postponed either by the Vice President or the DepEd or local government officials. An official announcement will be posted at the gate of the school.

    Classes are suspended if announced by government agencies before classes begin.

    Automatic suspension of classes due to inclement weather:
    a. Signal No. 1 raised by PAG-ASA: classes for Kinder level are suspended;
    b. Signal No. 2 raised by PAG-ASA: classes for Kinder, Grade School, and High School levels are suspended.

    Where other calamities such as floods, volcanic eruptions, and earthquakes have caused serious damage in homes of families in the community: classes for Kinder, Grade School, and High School levels are automatically suspended.

    Should PAG-ASA raise typhoon signals that warrant the suspension of classes according to the guidelines set above (#4), or should the government agency announce the suspension of classes:
    a. between 7:30 a.m. to 10:00 a.m., classes will be held until 10:45 a.m.;
    b. between 10:00 a.m. to 12:00 noon, classes will be held until 12:10 p.m.;
    c. between 12:00 noon to 2:30 p.m., classes will be held until 2:35 p.m.;
    d. after 2:30 p.m., regular afternoon classes will be held.

    In the event of the suspension of classes during the examination period, the affected exams will automatically be rescheduled to the day when classes resume, pushing back all the scheduled examinations thereafter. Example: Classes are suspended on the first day of examination, Monday, and resume on Tuesday. In this case, the exams for Monday will be moved to Tuesday while the exams for Tuesday will be moved to Wednesday and so on.

----------------------

PART II
Academic Standards

Section 4: Attendance and Punctuality

    Regular attendance in classes and school-sanctioned activities is required of the pupils / students. Attendance, moreover, should not only be regular; it should be punctual. Habitual and incorrigible tardiness and unexcused absences will be subjected to appropriate disciplinary action. (Please see Part VI Section 6: Disciplinary Sanctions on Tardiness and Part VI Section 7: Disciplinary Sanctions on Unexcused Absences)

    As per Manual of Regulations for Private Schools, Sec. 157.1, “a pupil / student, who incurs absences of more than twenty percent (20%) of the prescribed number of class or laboratory periods during the school year, should be given a failing grade and given no credit for the course,” a pupil / student, who has exceeded the allowed number of absences, will be automatically dropped from the roll.

    The class adviser and / or subject teacher shall take the attendance record every period.

    A pupil / student, who has been absent, must submit a letter of excuse executed by his / her parents / guardians to the Discipline Office that same day he / she reports to school. Requests for an excused absence should be done in writing. Failure to submit an excuse letter will deem the absence as unexcused.

    Absences may be classified either as excused or unexcused. After submission of the excuse letter, the Discipline Office shall determine whether the absence is excused or not.

    Every unexcused absence has a corresponding one (1) point conduct grade deduction. No deduction will be made on an excused absence due to sickness while a corresponding 0.5 point conduct grade deduction will be made on an excused absence due to personal reasons except for interment of immediate family members.

    Quizzes, seatwork, and assignments missed due to unexcused absences will not be given to any pupil/student. (See Part VI Section 7: Disciplinary Sanctions on Unexcused Absences)

    A pupil / student, who has a perfect attendance for one school year, will be rewarded with additional two (2) points on his / her overall conduct grade.

    Attendance during flag ceremony / morning assembly is a must. All pupils / students are expected to be in the classroom / formation in time for the flag ceremony / morning assembly. A pupil / student who reports to school after the flag ceremony / morning assembly will be marked absent for the flag ceremony / morning assembly. A pupil / student who has already reported to school but fails to proceed to his / her classroom / formation during the flag ceremony / morning assembly will also be marked absent from the flag ceremony / morning assembly. A pupil / student who is marked absent for the flag ceremony / morning assembly will be given a corresponding conduct grade deduction.

    All pupils / students are not supposed to leave the classroom in-between or exchange of periods without permission from the teacher. A pupil / student who comes in late during the change of periods will be marked tardy for that period.

    A pupil / student who has already reported to school but fails to attend his / her class and / or any school activity will be marked absent for that period. This is considered a cutting class.

    During recess, a warning bell will be rung two minutes before the class bell. All pupils / students are expected to proceed immediately to their respective classrooms. Pupils / students who fail to report to their classes after the class bell is rung will be considered tardy for that period.

    Tardiness, for whatever reason, is not excusable. Therefore, a pupil / student is responsible for all assignments and for the entire contents of the subject missed. No make-up will be given for any quiz or assignment that is missed due to tardiness.

    For online classes, absence for three (3) periods is considered as one day absence.

Section 5: Classroom Decorum

A good classroom atmosphere facilitates learning. Pupils / students and teachers help maintain the conduciveness of the classroom by observing the following:

    A bell signals the start and end of every class.

    Pupils / students shall report to class punctually and regularly.

    Every pupil / student is expected to come to class with the necessary school materials. The school strongly discourages parents / guardians from bringing to school anything left by their children at home.

    Unless with the instruction / permission from the teacher, pupils / students are not allowed to leave the classroom in-between or exchange of periods.

    Pupils / students must observe proper decorum at all times. Any disruptive activity such as making noise, horsing around, etc. during class or non-class hours is strictly prohibited.

    The classroom must be kept clean and orderly at all times.
    a. TV monitors, PC, bulletin boards, projector screens, blackboards, and chalk may be used only upon the instruction of the teachers or school authorities.
    b. As a sign of respect, pupils / students are not allowed to sit on the teacher's table.
    c. During dismissal, lights and fans must be switched off. Desks and tables should be kept aligned.
    d. Classroom doors should be left closed at all times.

    Order, silence, and promptness should be maintained while moving around the school premises.

    All pupils / students are not allowed to loiter around the campus during class hours.

    Unless with permission and supervision, certain premises around the campus, such as the gymnasium and the covered courts, are off-limits to pupils / students during class and non-class hours.

    Pupils / students are expected to show their parents / guardians all forms of communication, bulletins, letters, and memoranda coming from the school. All forms of communication with attached acknowledgment / reply slips must be returned to the class adviser within the specified date.

    For online classes, students/pupils are expected to turn on their cameras.

----------------------

PART II
Academic Standards

Section 6: Grading System

Grades are representations of the pupil's / student's academic performance in different subject areas.

    Grades are computed at the end of every grading period based on the general guidelines provided for by DepEd with the following levels of assessment:

The assessment shall be done at four levels and shall be weighted as follows: Written Work: 30%; Performance Task: 40% (comprising Product at 15% and Performance-Based Task at 25%); Quarterly Assessment: 30%. 

For online classes, the assessment weight is: Written Work: 25%; Performance Task: 30%; Participation: 15%; Quarterly Assessment: 30%.

中文部小学评分原则：

一、华语评分法
小一、小二：
华语分：
1. 笔试70%：
    a. 60%（平时小测长考40%+单元60%）
    b. 40%（阶段考试）
2. 口试 20%
3. 写字 10%

小三至小六：
华语分：
1. 笔试 75%：
    a. 60%（平时小测长考40%+单元60%）
    b. 40%（阶段考试）
2. 口试 20%
3. 写字 5%

二、总平均
小学总平均计算方法如下：小一、小二：华语占65%；说话占10%；品德占10%；数学占15%。小三：华语占60%；说话占15%；作文占10%；品德占10%；数学占5%。小四至小六：华语占60%；说话占20%；作文占10%；品德占10%。总和为总平均。

三、小六实验班：
语文分：
1. 平时成绩40%：
    a. 平时小测平均45%
    b. 单元考平均45%
    c. 课堂表现10%
2. 口试成绩20%
3. 阶段成绩40%

小六实验班总平均计算方法如下：语文占60%；说话占15%；作文占15%；阅读占10%。总和为总平均。

中文部初中普通班评分原则：

一、华语评分法
1. 华语分 95%：
    a. 平时成绩 40%：
        i. 平时小测平均 45%
        ii. 单元考平均 45%
        iii. 课堂表现 10%
    b. 口试成绩20%
    c. 阶段成绩40%
2. 品德分 5%

二、总平均
初中普通班总平均计算方法如下：华语占60%；作文占10%；阅读占15%；听力占10%；电脑占5%。总和为总平均。

中文部初中实验班评分原则：

一、语文评分法
1. 语文分 95%：
    a. 平时成绩 40%：
        i. 平时小测平均 45%
        ii. 单元考平均 45%
        iii. 课堂表现 10%
    b. 口试成绩 20%
    c. 阶段成绩 40%
2. 品德分 5%

二、总平均
初中实验班总平均计算方法如下：语文占60%；作文占10%；阅读占15%；文化占10%；电脑占5%。总和为总平均。

中文部高中普通班评分原则：

一、华语评分法
华语分：
1. 平时成绩40%：
    a. 平时小测平均 45%
    b. 单元考平均 45%
    c. 课堂表现 10%
2. 口试成绩20%
3. 阶段成绩40%

二、总平均
高中普通班总平均计算方法如下：华语占60%；文化占10%；会话占20%；听力占10%。总和为总平均。

中文部高中实验班评分原则：

一、华语评分法
华语分：
1. 平时成绩 40%：
    a. 平时小测平均 45%
    b. 单元考平均 45%
    c. 课堂表现 10%
2. 口试成绩 20%
3. 阶段成绩 40%

二、计总平均时
高中实验班总平均计算方法如下：语文占70%；文化占20%；作文占10%。总和为总平均。

线上课堂评分标准：
小一至高中：
线上课堂评分标准如下：出勤占20%；课堂表现占35%；小测/反馈占20%；作业占25%。


    The Kindergarten Department makes use of a Skills Checklist/ Written Assessment to formally document data collected on the pupil's academic skills and developmental traits. The checklist is divided into different domains of development, which are further elaborated into expected skills, attitudes and behaviors. The domains are: Physical, Social and Emotional, Cognitive, Logical and Mathematical and Arts. Each item is assessed and marked using the following rubric:

S - SECURED BEHAVIOR. Behavior is already a strong part of the child's repertoire, displaying it often and in many situations, and becomes the basis for the development of new behaviors.

D - DEVELOPING BEHAVIOR. Behavior is seen regularly or consistently but in its early stages and not yet generalized in all situations.

E - EMERGING BEHAVIOR. Behavior is beginning to appear and may be seen once in a while or during particular situations but not on a

NYO - NOT YET OBSERVED. The behavior is either beyond the child's developmental capabilities or there has been limited opportunity to dis-

NA/NI - NOT APPLICABLE/ NOT INTRODUCED. The concept is not introduced or taken up in the level.

幼儿评估手册记录幼儿从入园到大班的成长过程，以供家长了解幼儿在园的表现，便于学校做好家园联系工作。本手册的评估方式以五大领域为主，分别是健康、社会、科学、语言、艺术。教师于期中和期末两个阶段有针对性地对幼儿进行五大领域的观察、评估，其中包括笔试及口试，并以优、良、中、差的形式记录幼儿的成长。

    In all written examinations, the score of 60% of the total number of items is equivalent to the passing grade of 75%.

    The passing grade in the report card is 75%

    Academic Honors are categorized as follows:

Academic Honors are: 

For SHS: 95% and above: Great Distinction; 92.5 – 94.999%: High Distinction; 90 – 92.499%: Distinction.

For GS & JHS: 95% and above: With Highest Honors; 92.5 – 94.999%: With High Honors; 90 – 92.499%: With Honors.

优秀生等级
优秀生等级划分如下：
高中部：95分以上为最高荣誉奖；92.5至94.999分为荣誉奖；90至92.499分为优秀奖。
小学/初中部：95分以上为一等奖；92.5至94.999分为二等奖；90至92.499分为三等奖。

    The final grade is obtained using the averaging system.

    The report card (DepEd F-138) is issued to the pupil / student at the end of every grading period or semester.

Kinder

a. The Developmental Checklist is released to the pupils at the end of every semester.

b. The parents/guardians are expected to attend the Parent Teachers Conference (PTC) and receive the Developmental Checklist.

Grade School /High School

a. After the First and Third Grading Periods (GS & JHS); mid-term (SHS), parents / guardians are expected to come to school for the distribution of report cards and the Parent-Teacher Conference (PTC).

b. Parents / guardians must sign and return the proof of receipt to the adviser a day after the issuance of the report card.

c. Tampering with the report card or forging the parent's / guardian's signature is a serious offense that will be dealt with strictly.
d. The Report card for the final grading period at the end of the school year is released only to the pupil/student.

----------------------

PART II
Academic Standards

Section 7: Written Works and Quarterly Assessment/Midterm and Final Exams

    The following tests are given to assess the academic performance of each pupil / student:
    a. Written works; and
    b. Quarterly Assessment/Midterm and Final Exams

    Written works are given according to the schedule (for grade school) and the quiz chart (for high school).

    The schedule of Quarterly Assessment/Midterm & Final Exams will be announced at least one (1) week before the actual exam date. The schedule will also be posted at designated bulletin boards.

    During Quarterly Assessment/Midterm & Final Exams, pupils / students are given rooms and seating assignments. Each pupil / student must observe the room and seating assignment accordingly.

    All co / extra-curricular activities are suspended one (1) week before the Quarterly Assessment/Midterm and Final Exams.

    In the event a pupil / student fails to take any of the scheduled written works/ Quarterly Assessment (major and minor subjects) / Midterm & Final Exams due to his / her absence, he / she must submit to the Discipline Office a letter of excuse written by his / her parents / guardians. The Discipline Office shall issue a clearance before a pupil / student will be allowed to take a make-up written work / quarterly assessment. Make up written work / quarterly assessment must be taken within five (5) school days upon his / her return. A five percent (5%) deduction will be made on any make up written works/quarterly assessment. However, no deduction will be made on absences due to hospitalization; medical operations; communicable diseases such as chicken pox, mumps, measles, sore eyes, hepatitis, SARS, Covid-19, and dengue (medical certificate must be presented); and interment of immediate family members.

    During Quarterly Assessment/Midterm and Final Exams, the following must be observed:
    a. Intellectual honesty and integrity must be observed at all times. Any form of cheating is not tolerated and shall be dealt with strictly. A pupil / student, who is involved in cheating, shall automatically receive the lowest possible grade for that particular test. In addition, he / she shall be given a major offense notice and a conduct grade deduction.
    b. Unless the proctor gives his / her permission, a pupil / student should not leave his / her assigned seat. He / She is also not allowed to leave the classroom during the course of the examination without the proctor's permission.
    c. Absolute silence must be strictly observed. Talking to seatmates or turning one's head in any direction may be construed as cheating.
    d. The desk must be kept free of anything other than the test paper, pens / pencils, erasers, and those materials allowed by the proctor.
    e. Violation of examination rules / proctor's instructions will warrant appropriate sanction.
    f. For pupils/students wearing incomplete uniforms, “No Exam Policy” shall be strictly implemented.
    g. Latecomers will not be given an extension. All papers must be submitted on time.

    Guidelines on Student Incentives and Exemption
    A. Contestants and School Representatives

        All contest representatives (academic or non-academic), performers (dancers or singers), scouting representatives, and representatives in school-approved seminars and leadership trainings are exempted from all the activities (recitation, seatwork, exercise, project, experiment, theme, etc.) done on the day that they are out. They are likewise exempted from assignments given on the day that they are out and have to be submitted on the following day or on the day of their return to school. Highest possible grade applies. However, previous assignments due on the day of the contest, seminar, training, or performance still have to be submitted.

    All contest representatives are exempted from written works and quarterly assessment conducted on the day of the contest, Highest obtained grade rule applies. The student has the option to take the test.

    Performers, scouting representatives, and representatives to seminars and leadership trainings are not exempted from written works and quarterly assessment. They will be given a maximum of five days upon return to take the make-up test/s with no deduction.

    Contestants of international competitions will be exempted from written works or quarterly assessment on the following day of their arrival (if arrival is a few hours after midnight of a particular day, the date before midnight is considered as the date of arrival).

    Contestants of out-of-town competitions will not be exempted from written works or quarterly assessment on the following day of their arrival. Students will be given a maximum of five days upon return to take the make-up test/s with no deduction.

    Contestants of local competitions (within Metro Manila area) will not be exempted from the written works or quarterly assessment on the following day after the competition. They are required to take the written works or quarterly assessment as scheduled. No grace period shall be given to them.

    A copy of the test paper should be given to the exempted pupil/student upon his/her return to school.

    All winning contestants in academic contests will be given corresponding point/s in the transmitted grade/s of the quarterly assessment of the subject/s represented in the contest/s.

Incentive points for academic contests are: 
International Level: represented and won: 1st Place – 5 points, 2nd Place – 4 points, 3rd Place – 3 points; represented only: 2 points; 
National Level/ Regional Level: represented and won: 1st Place – 4 points, 2nd Place – 3 points, 3rd Place – 2 points; represented only: 1 point; 
Division / District Level: represented and won: 1st Place – 3 points, 2nd Place – 2 points, 3rd Place – 1 point; represented only: 0.5 point.


    The following table provides some academic contests regularly participated in for reference on the classification of contests. Contest/s not found in the table will be decided upon.

Contest classification examples are: 
National Level: ICAS, MTAP National Contest, AMC, IMAS, MTG, NSPC, Outstanding Student Award, IKMC-PH, Boys and Girls Week participation, National Parallel Challenge for Future Mathematicians, APPSAM Contests; 
Regional Level: MTAP Sectoral/ Regional Contest, RSPC; 
Division/District Level: Conference with contest, Interschool Competition, CMLI, MTAP Area/ Division Contest, YMCA, DSPC, FAMMPSA Olympiad.

    A student may obtain the above-mentioned incentive/s only for the school accredited contest/s provided that the score does not go beyond the highest possible score. However, a student may join contests in as many different subject areas as chosen by the school and still gain incentives for each of his/her events, provided that the first statement in this item stands.

    If a contest involves different subject areas, (i.e., Academic Bowl, Battle of the Brains), the incentive/s will be divided and distributed among the different subject areas involved in the contest.

    All non-academic winners will be given additional point/s in Conduct.

    Athletes who participate in multiple events under the same athletic tournament may only obtain incentive/s once, based on the highest award received among all events.

    Incentive/s for journalism-related contest/s will be allocated to the English subject, unless Filipino is the medium involved, in which case, the incentive/s will be allocated to the Filipino subject.

    Incentive/s for the participant/s of computer-related contest/s will be allocated to the computer subject.

    Varsity performers (Dance Troupes, Glee Club/Choir, Chinese Orchestra, Theater Guild) will be exempted from their PE classes. Their PE grades will be provided by their respective instructors and/or coaches.

----------------------

If a contest involves different subject areas, (i.e., Academic Bowl, Battle of the Brains), the incentive/s will be divided and distributed among the different subject areas involved in the contest.

    All non-academic winners will be given additional point/s in Conduct.

    Athletes who participate in multiple events under the same athletic tournament may only obtain incentive/s once, based on the highest award received among all events.

    Incentive/s for journalism-related contest/s will be allocated to the English subject, unless Filipino is the medium involved, in which case, the incentive/s will be allocated to the Filipino subject.

    Incentive/s for the participant/s of computer-related contest/s will be allocated to the computer subject.

    Varsity performers (Dance Troupes, Glee Club/Choir, Chinese Orchestra, Theater Guild) will be exempted from their PE classes. Their PE grades will be provided by their respective instructors and/or coaches.

    Varsity athletes are exempted from their MAPEH classes. Their MAPEH grades will be provided by their respective coaches.

B. Special Class Students
This scheme applies to the Special Class Program (SCP) in Math.

    A student included in the SCP may be exempted from the Fourth quarterly assessment in Math if he/she belongs to the top 50% of his/her class. Students will be ranked based on the average grade of the First, Second, and Third grading periods as reflected on their cards.

    Once exempted, the quarterly assessment score for the Fourth grading period will be based on the highest grade obtained by the pupil/student among all his/her quarterly assessment scores; however, the student has the option to take the fourth quarterly assessment.

----------------------

PART II
Academic Standards

Section 8: Promotion, Retention and Remedial Classes

    A pupil / student is promoted to the next grade level if he/she passes the desired requirements of all subject areas obtaining a grade of at least 75%.

For GS & JHS:

    Students who obtain 1 or 2 failing grades in any subject areas will be required to take remedial classes.

    Students who obtain 3 failing grades in any subject areas will be retained in the same grade level.

    Students who fail in any component subject, will be required to take remedial classes.

For SHS:

    Students who fail in any subject area must retake the subject failed in remedial class or have it as a back subject.

Section 9: Academic Probation

This is a restraining measure imposed by the school on pupils / students, who fail to meet the academic requirements of the previous school year. Its objective is to oblige the pupils / students to concentrate more on improving their academic performance.

    A new pupil / student shall be placed under academic probation if he / she fails in any subject at the end of his / her first year.

    A pupil / student shall be placed under academic probation if he / she is retained in the same grade level.

Section 10: Requirements for Graduation

    A pupil / student who has satisfactorily completed the requirements of the Grade School / Senior High School curriculum is eligible for graduation.

    A pupil / student who is required to take remedial classes may attend the moving-up/completion ceremony as part of the audience. Furthermore, he / she will not be issued his / her certificate and other credentials until all requirements of the course have been completed.

    A pupil / student is required to attend the graduation rehearsal. Otherwise, he/she will attend the actual ceremony only as part of the audience.

Section 11: Requirements for Moving-up/Completion

    A pupil / student who has satisfactorily completed the requirements for promotion of the Kinder curriculum and Junior High School curriculum is eligible for moving-up/completion.

    A pupil / student who is required to take remedial classes may attend the moving-up/completion ceremony as part of the audience. Furthermore, he / she will not be issued his / her certificate and other credentials until all requirements of the course have been completed.

    A pupil / student is required to attend the moving-up/completion rehearsal. Otherwise, he/she will attend the actual ceremony only as part of the audience.

Section 12: Physical Education

Each pupil / student is encouraged to increase his / her tendencies and abilities to play competitive recreational sports and games. Hence, all pupils / students are required to take Physical Education (P.E.) classes, which are held once a week.

    Pupils / Students are required to wear their P.E. uniforms during their scheduled P.E. days.

    Pupils / Students with health or physical disabilities may be exempted from joining strenuous physical activities. A request for exemption from the parents / guardians, supported by a certification from a physician, must be submitted to the Office of the Vice President before an exemption order will be issued. Pupils / Students falling under this category are still required to be physically present in his / her P.E. class. Tasks will be assigned by the teacher accordingly.

----------------------

PART VI
Code of Discipline

Section 12: Due Process

A pupil / student, who has been accused of any infraction or breach of the Code of Discipline, will be accorded the right to due process before any sanction will be meted.

    For disciplinary offenses, the Head Disciplinarian shall conduct summary proceedings and impose sanctions according to the guidelines set in this handbook.

    For serious disciplinary offenses, the following procedure is observed:
    a. INVESTIGATION. It refers to the act of gathering information relevant to the complaint / case. It also involves the routine questioning of the offending pupil / student and / or witnesses and the searching for physical evidence. The Head Disciplinarian assisted by his / her staff, conducts the investigation.
    b. DETERMINATION OF THE MERIT OF THE CASE. After the investigation, the Head Disciplinarian shall endorse the case to the Vice President, who in turn calls for a meeting with the Student Discipline Committee.
    c. DECISION OF THE STUDENT DISCIPLINE COMMITTEE. The Student Discipline Committee shall deliberate on the complaint / case and recommend a corresponding sanction. The parents / guardian concerned will be informed of any complaint and sanctions that may be enforced on the pupil / student either through a conference or correspondence.

Section 13: Duties of Parents

    Parents are required to attend Parents Orientation/ Quarterly Parent-Teacher Conference and other related activities.

    Parents are to cooperate fully with the teacher if the behavior of the child requires a dialogue.

    Parents/Visitors are not allowed to see their children or any teacher during class hours without permission from the Vice President, and in his/her absence, the Head Disciplinarian.

    Parents are required to wear proper attire as prescribed by the school when entering the campus. Shorts, undershirts, slippers, sleeveless shirts/spaghetti straps are strictly prohibited inside the school campus.

----------------------

PART VI
Code of Discipline

The school's Code of Discipline ensures that the overall environment of the campus is orderly and conducive to learning and personal growth. It prescribes a set of rules and regulations, which govern student behavior on or off-campus. Hence, all pupils / students are expected to know, observe, and follow the Code of Discipline at all times.

Section 1: The Discipline Office

The DISCIPLINE OFFICE (DO) is mandated with the establishment, interpretation, and enforcement of the school's Code of Discipline. It is headed by the Head Disciplinarian and is assisted by the discipline staff. However, all school officials, teachers, support staff, and security guards are duty bound to assist the Head Disciplinarian and discipline staff in ensuring that the school's Code of Discipline is enforced at all times.
The following are the mandates of the Discipline Office:
a. Ensure order inside the campus.
b. Determine the acceptability / unacceptability of behaviors of the pupils / students.
c. Investigate all complaints of pupil's / student's disruptive behavior.
d. Conduct summary proceedings and impose sanctions on minor disciplinary cases.

Section 2: The Student Discipline Committee

The STUDENT DISCIPLINE COMMITTEE is convened by the Vice President to hear and deliberate on complaints and impose sanctions on serious infractions and breach of the Code of Discipline. The committee is composed of the following: the Vice President as the chair and the Head Disciplinarian, the English Supervisor, the Chinese Supervisor, the Kinder Supervisor, the Subject Area Coordinators, the Head of Student Affairs, and the concerned faculty as members.

Section 3: Conduct Grade

The deportment of each pupil / student is graded under Conduct. Conduct grade is computed every grading period.

    The following are considered in the computation of the conduct grade:
    a. Grades given by the class adviser and all subject area teachers;
    b. The average of the consolidated grades given by the English and the Chinese teachers;
    c. Merits / Demerits from attendance and tardiness;
    d. Merits from rendering service to the school and the community, winning in non-academic contests, and doing good deeds; and
    e. Demerits from commission of offenses.

    Conduct grades are interpreted as follows: The letter mark A+ (甲上) corresponds to a numerical equivalent of 99-100%. The letter mark A (甲) corresponds to a numerical equivalent of 95-98%. The letter mark A- (甲下) corresponds to a numerical equivalent of 90-94%. The letter mark B+ (乙上) corresponds to a numerical equivalent of 86-89%. The letter mark B (乙) corresponds to a numerical equivalent of 85%. The letter mark B- (乙下) corresponds to a numerical equivalent of 80-84%. The letter mark C+ (丙上) corresponds to a numerical equivalent of 76-79%. The letter mark C (丙) corresponds to a numerical equivalent of 75%. The letter mark C- (丙下) corresponds to a numerical equivalent of 70-74%. The letter mark D (丁) corresponds to a numerical equivalent of 60-69%. The letter mark E (戊) corresponds to a numerical equivalent of below 60%.
    N.B.: The passing conduct grade is C.

    The school will immediately exclude / drop the pupil / student if:
    a. he / she obtains a conduct grade of E.
    b. he / she obtains a conduct grade of D twice in his/her entire stay in school.

Section 4: Merits for Representation in Competitions and Other Activities

Additional conduct grade is given to students, who represent the school and win in non-academic competitions and other activities:
For International Level competitions, first place receives 4 additional points, second place receives 3 points, and third place receives 2 points.
For National Level competitions, first place receives 3 additional points, second place receives 2 points, and third place receives 1 point.
For Regional/Division/District Level competitions, first place receives 2 additional points, second place receives 1.5 points, and third place receives 1 point.
Participation alone receives 0.5 points.
Note: The additional conduct grades will be added on the grading period contests are won.

Section 5: Disciplinary Probation

DISCIPLINARY PROBATION is a restraining measure that aims to help pupils / students develop self-discipline and improve their future conduct.

    Disciplinary Probation is imposed on:
    a. all new pupils / students who obtain a final conduct grade of (C) at the end of the school year;
    b. all pupils / students who obtain a final conduct grade of (C-) the previous school year; and
    c. all pupils / students who obtain a conduct grade of (C-) or (D) in any grading period.

    The pupils / students may be placed under Disciplinary Probation status anytime during the school year. The Disciplinary Probation status will be lifted at the end of the school year if the pupil / student concerned obtains a final conduct grade of C or higher.

Section 6: Disciplinary Sanctions on Tardiness

Tardiness for whatever reason is strongly discouraged. A deduction of 0.25 point from the conduct grade will be made every time the pupil / student comes to school or class tardy. Frequent tardiness will be dealt with strictly. A pupil / student, who has accumulated a total number of ten (10) tardiness within a quarter will be given a minor offense notice.
For 1 tardiness, the point deduction is 0.25.
For 2 tardiness, the point deduction is 0.50.
For 3 tardiness, the point deduction is 0.75 and a Tardiness Notice is issued.
For 4 tardiness, the point deduction is 1.00.
For 8 tardiness, the point deduction is 2.00.
For 10 tardiness, the point deduction is 3.00 and a Minor Offense Notice is issued.

Section 7: Disciplinary Sanctions on Unexcused Absences

Every unexcused absence has a corresponding one (1) point conduct grade deduction.
For 1 unexcused absence, the point deduction is 1.00.
For 3 unexcused absences, the point deduction is 3.00 and a Minor Offense Notice is issued.
For 9 unexcused absences, the point deduction is 9.00 and a Major Offense Notice is issued.

Section 8: Disciplinary Sanctions on Offenses Made

The school imposes appropriate and reasonable disciplinary sanctions such as suspension, exclusion, or expulsion to pupils / students, who disregard / violate the Code of Discipline.

    A pupil / student, who has been suspended for a cause, will be denied attendance in classes / school activities for a specified period of time. He / she will not be given make up for all quizzes / examinations, seat works, activities, exercises, etc. missed during his / her suspension.

    A pupil / student is excluded or dropped from the roll for being undesirable.

    A pupil / student, who has been expelled from the school, will be debarred from all public or private schools in the country.

----------------------

PART VI
Code of Discipline

Section 9: Minor Offense Notice

A pupil / student, who is found guilty of any of the following offenses, will be served a Minor Offense Notice:

    Using someone else's ID card and claiming it as his / her own;

    Attending classes late;

    Having perennial unexcused absences;

    Leaving the classroom without permission;

    Showing up late on the scheduled date and time of contest/activity/ seminar without valid reason;

    Littering;

    Displaying improper behavior such as sleeping, slouching, playing, talking, eating and drinking during school assemblies/functions;

    Submitting late or not submitting official documents on the dead line set by the school;

    Displaying rowdy behavior;

    Using foul / vulgar / obscene/ abusive or insulting language;

    Making unwanted noise, running, loitering in the corridor during class hours or displaying actions that disrupt / disturb classes or activities;

    Playing harmful jokes / dangerous games;

    Spreading rumors;

    Posting unofficial notices on campus walls and doors;

    Tampering / Defacing / Altering notices posted on bulletin boards;

    Entering the opposite sex's toilet;

    Tampering with other people's belongings;

    Disregarding proper grooming and uniform regulations, (including the wearing of make-up/colored powder and nail polish);

    Wearing inappropriate accessories;

    Chewing gum;

    Disregarding laboratory / gymnasium / classroom rules and regulations;

    Using school facilities such as tv-com, air conditioning unit, elevator, etc. without permission;

    Entering restricted areas in the campus;

    Entering the classroom / laboratory / gymnasium / auditorium / AVR during unauthorized periods;

    Other offenses analogous to any of the above.
    N.B.: Depending on the gravity of the offense, a minimum of one (1) point to a maximum of six (6) points will be deducted from the conduct grade.

Section 10: Major Offense Notice

A pupil / student, who is found guilty of any of the following, will be served a Major Offense Notice:

    Cutting classes;

    Failing to report to school / class / school activity without valid reason;

    Leaving the school during class hours without permission;

    Bullying / Intimidating / Annoying another student;

    Challenging / Provoking other student/s to a fight;

    Displaying inappropriate affection in public;

    Cyberbullying;

    Using information and communication technologies, such as email, cell phone, text messages, instant messages, defamatory personal websites, blog to support deliberate, repeated, and hostile behavior of an individual or group intending to harm others;

    Using scandalous words, expressions, statements, spreading malicious talk in any social media and other electronic media device, posting and reposting scandalous and gross materials / pictures;

    Posting unwarranted screenshot, which maligns the dignity and reputation of others;

    Showing defiance to any school personnel and / or person in authority;

    Instigating, leading or participating in concerted activities leading to the disruption of classes;

    Engaging in bribery;

    Committing perjury or showing non-cooperation in school investigation;

    Soliciting money or other instruments used as money;

    Taking part or directly involving in the malversation of class or school funds;

    Stealing or an attempt thereof;

    Using the school's name for any purpose without permission;

    Taking part in the destruction of school property (N.B.: Aside from an appropriate sanction, a pupil / student, who is found guilty of vandalism will be required to pay the damages.);

    Engaging in a brawl (whether inside or outside the school premises);

    Showing discourtesy or impoliteness to any person in authority;

    Inflicting physical injury upon another / other person/s (whether inside or outside the school premises);

    Attempting to or assaulting directly any member of the school community, visitors or guests;

    Gambling in any form inside or outside the school premises;

    Smoking and drinking alcoholic beverages inside or outside the school premises;

    Molesting, harassing or insulting any member of the school officials, faculty, staff or schoolmates;

    Coming to school under the influence of alcohol;

    Attempting to access or accessing adult-themed websites;

    Drawing any representations of obscene or pornographic acts;

    Carrying or possessing firecrackers inside and outside the school premises (N.B.: These items will be confiscated and will never be returned.);

    Forging parent's / guardian's signature; and

    Cheating or an attempt thereof.
    The following are considered as cheating:

    Possessing or using crib notes, which may be written on paper, on the desk or on any instruments, which have been banned from the examination;

    Copying or looking at another pupil's / student's paper;

    Holding up one's test paper or allowing another pupil / student to copy from his / her paper or writing on another pupil's / student's paper;

    Giving signals or any form of communication, which may be interpreted as giving or soliciting help during quizzes / examinations;

    Stealing examination paper;

    Disclosing examination items, including giving or receiving examination paper;

    Involving directly or indirectly in the leakage of examination paper;

    Plagiarizing, / claiming / passing off as one's own work the work of another;

    Altering test scores / answers after the return of test papers; and

    Other offenses analogous to any of the above.
    N.B.: For major offenses, a minimum of seven (7) points to a maximum of twelve (12) points may be deducted from the conduct grade. Suspension, exclusion or expulsion may also be imposed on the offending pupil / student.

Section 11: Offenses Warranting Immediate Exclusion/Expulsion
Automatic exclusion or expulsion will be imposed on a pupil/student found guilty of any of the following:

    Possessing, selling or using prohibited drugs on or off-campus;

    Organizing, recruiting, participating in any fraternity / sorority;

    Having committed or being involved in a crime (N.B.: A pupil / student who is under litigation for a crime will be excluded / dropped from the roll.);

    Forging or falsifying and / or tampering with academic or official records and documents;

    Making false statement of any material fact;

    Practicing or attempting to practice any deception or fraud;

    Showing gross acts of disrespect, in words or in deeds, which tend to put any school official or member of the faculty and staff in ridicule or contempt;

    Having shown any act that brings the name of the school into disrepute;

    Carrying or possessing explosives and dangerous weapons inside and outside the school premises;

    Engaging in illicit / scandalous behavior inside or outside the school premises;

    Involving in extortion;

    Engaging in arson;

    Having proven to be pregnant;

    Contracting marriage; and

    Other acts of commission / omission analogous to any of the above.

N.B.: (1) An offense may be given a higher sanction due to the following conditions:
a. Repeating the same offense anytime within the student's stay in the grade school / high school;
b. Committing offense aimed at any member of the school community;
c. Showing a pattern of behavior indicating a negative attitude toward school, school rules or school authorities; and
d. other situations as determined by the school authorities.

    School authorities may impose a lesser sanction or even suspend the sanction based on the following factors: Having proven
    a. good faith (an honest mistake);
    b. provocation from other parties;
    c. good disciplinary record;
    d. cooperation on the part of the student and his / her family;
    e. other situations determined by the school authorities.

----------------------

SCHOOL COLORS
GREEN: Signifies the development of progressive thinking, learning, and attitude in education.
YELLOW: Symbolizes the cultivation of noble spirit, character, and personality.
绿：培植迈进技能
黄：养成高尚人格

THE SCHOOL SEAL
The five-petal Plum Blossom — the National Flower of China — represents the Chinese people, the forebears of the Chinese-Filipino in the Philippines. The Plum Blossom also represents the rich Chinese cultural heritage PCC is espousing among her students.

The Lighthouse — a familiar structure especially among the seafaring Chinese immigrants to the Philippines—represents Philippine Cultural College, the refuge of Knowledge-Seekers, the solace of the students, who desire to Learn.

The Rays represent education, learning, and enlightenment.

The Waves describe the struggles throughout the history of PCC.

The Sampan symbolizes the Huaqiao, representing the present day Chinese-Filipino community and their Sangley forbears, who came to trade, migrate, and settle in the Philippines aboard the Sampan as early as the 15th century. It also represents the PCC alumni, students, faculty and staff, who are all drawn to their alma mater for intellectual nourishment and moral guidance.

The pair of seagulls represents Freedom from intellectual bondage and ignorance by way of progressive thinking, learning, and attitude in education.

五片花瓣的梅花象征着菲律宾华人，也代表着丰富的中华文化。

灯塔象征着侨中学院，求知学子的依靠。

灯塔的光辉代表着教育、学习、知识。

海浪象征着侨中学院艰苦奋斗的峥嵘岁月。

早在十五世纪，华侨就乘搭船板来到了菲律宾。船板象征着华人及当今的菲华社会，也代表着求知欲强的侨中人。

一对海鸥象征着进步的思想、正确的教育观，以摆脱无知的束缚。

----------------------

Student Handbook
FOREWORD

This handbook contains the different academic policies, which all pupils/students are expected to know and observe. It also contains important guidelines on how the pupils/students should behave on and off-campus. Hence, all pupils/students are expected to read, understand, and abide by the rules and regulations contained in this handbook. Since the school recognizes the indispensable role of the family in nurturing the children, parents/guardians are expected to know and be familiar with the contents of this handbook.

----------------------

PART I
General Policies and Procedures

Section 1: Student Admissions Committee

The Student Admissions Committee reviews the credentials of pupils / students seeking admission to the school. The Committee is composed of the Vice President as the chair, the English Supervisor, the Chinese Supervisor, and the Kinder Supervisor as the co-chairs, and the Head of Student Affairs, the Head Disciplinarian, and the Head of Records Department as members.

Section 2: Admission of New Pupils / Students

    Admission to PCC is granted to a qualified applicant on the condition that he / she and his / her parents / guardians agree to comply with the rules and regulations of the school.

    Former PCC pupils / students, who have transferred to other schools, may be readmitted as long as they are in good standing. However, they will be considered as new pupils / students and will be required to go through the entire admission process again.

    All applicants must apply in person at the Office of Student Affairs (OSA)/Kinder Office.

    The application form will be issued upon the submission of the following requirements: the original copy of the latest report card/ performance record; the original PSA copy of the birth certificate; a photocopy of the I-Card if the applicant is a foreigner (the original copy must be presented for verification); four (4) recent colored passport size photos of the applicant; and for applicants from a foreign country, documents authenticated by the Office of the Philippine Embassy/Office of the Consular official in the country, which has jurisdiction over the issuing school, including English translation of the entries particularly the name of student, subjects, grades, and grade level.

    Applicants will be admitted on the basis of the following: the result of the admission test; the result of the interview; good performance in the previous school year (academic and deportment); the age requirement; the availability of slots; and other criteria as may be set by the school.

    The Office of Student Affairs will post the list of successful applicants at the school bulletin board and email three (3) working days after the admission test is given.

    Accepted applicants will be issued an admission letter before paying the reservation fee, which is non-refundable but is deductible from the tuition fee. The same letter and the reservation payment receipt should be presented upon enrollment.

Section 3: Enrollment

    Pupils / students shall be enrolled using only the names appearing on their birth certificates, or for foreign pupils / students, their I-cards. No aliases will be allowed unless their use has been judicially approved.

    Enrollment is for one school year.

    A pupil / student is considered officially enrolled after full payment of the tuition fee; and submission of the appropriate admission requirements and / or transfer credentials.

    A pupil / student may withdraw voluntarily from the school after submission of a written explanation addressed to the Vice President. Transfer credentials will be issued after five (5) working days from the receipt of the written request from the parents / guardians of the pupil / student.

    The following rules regarding paid fees shall be applied for refunds: twenty percent (20%) will be deducted from the total assessed fees if a pupil / student officially withdraws before the school opening; forty percent (40%) will be deducted from the total assessed fees if a pupil / student officially withdraws within one week after the school opening; no refund will be given if a pupil / student withdraws on the second week after the school opening; and no refund will be given if a pupil / student withdraws anytime during the second semester.

    Cross enrolling from or to other schools is not permitted.

    A returning pupil / student, who has satisfactorily completed all the requirements, may be re- admitted.

Section 4: Enrollment Conditions for New Pupils / Students

    All new pupils / students are expected to abide by the rules and regulations, disciplinary measures, and other standards stipulated in this handbook as well as in other guidelines that may be issued by the school from time to time.

    All new pupils / students are expected to study diligently and to maintain a final rating of not lower than the passing mark prescribed by the school; otherwise, they shall be placed under academic probation or denied readmission the following school year.

    All new pupils / students shall not engage in any misdemeanor or any disruptive activity and shall maintain a final conduct grade of not lower than C (75%); otherwise, they shall be placed under disciplinary probation or denied readmission the following school year.

Section 5: School ID

Each pupil / student enrolled in the school is issued an official identification (ID) card.

    All pupils / students must wear their ID cards upon entering the school premises even on non-school days. The ID card must be worn at all times while inside the campus.

    The ID card is non-transferable. Lending or borrowing of ID cards, as well as using expired ID cards, shall be dealt with accordingly.

    Tampering with ID cards is an offense that warrants appropriate disciplinary sanction.

    Lost ID cards should be reported immediately to the Discipline Office. A fee will be charged for the replacement of the lost ID card.

    Pupils / students should submit their ID cards upon the demand of any school authority.

    No stickers or decorative materials should be attached on the ID card.

Section 6: School Records

The individual academic file of each pupil / student is kept at the Records Department.

    Upon request, the Records Department issues transcripts of records and certificates. All requests should be made formally in writing and / or by accomplishing the required form. All requests will be released after five (5) working days.

    Pupils / students, as well as their parents / guardians, guarantee that personal information provided in the school records is true and correct. Perjury is punishable under Philippine law.

    As may be required, parents / guardians should inform the school, in writing, any new personal information about themselves and all their children, who are enrolled in the school, like change in address and / or telephone number.

----------------------

PART I
General Policies and Procedures

Section 7: School Uniform

The official school uniform must be worn completely and properly every school day and / or as may be required during school activities on Saturdays, Sundays, or holidays. A pupil / student, who wears an incomplete school uniform, will not be allowed to enter the school and / or participate in school activities.

    BOY'S UNIFORM: The prescribed Kindergarten boy's uniform is polo jacket with checkered shorts or pants, black shoes, and white socks. The prescribed Grade School and High School boy's uniform is plain white polo (polo jackets are not allowed) over a white underment (plain white T-shirt or undershirt), plain comfort-fit khaki trousers with black belt, and white socks with black leather shoes. The polo should be neatly tucked. A complete uniform includes the wearing of the school ID and the school pin.

    GIRL'S UNIFORM: The prescribed Kindergarten girl's uniform is a checkered dress with white collar, black shoes, and white socks or white pantyhose. The prescribed Grade School and High School girl's uniform is plain white sportscollared blouse (polo jackets are not allowed), knee-length navy blue skirt with pleats, and white socks with low-heeled black leather shoes. The blouse should be neatly tucked. A complete uniform includes the wearing of the school ID and the school pin.

    The SHS students should wear the prescribed shirt with denim pants (navy blue/black) and rubber shoes on designated days.

    Ripped jeans and ripped shirts are not allowed at all times.

    During non-school days, all pupils / students are required to wear the school ID and decent attire when coming to school. Attires such as undershirts, garments with plunging necklines, sleeveless shirts / blouses, halter-tops, mini-skirts, shorts, slippers / thong strap sandals, etc. are not allowed.

    All Kindergarten pupils are required to wear the proper P.E. uniform on their scheduled P.E day, except when advised otherwise.

    All pupils / students are required to wear the proper P.E. uniform on their scheduled P.E. day except during the periodical examination week.

    The conventions of good grooming must be adhered to at all times. Discipline officers and teachers shall inspect the grooming of pupils / students regularly.
    8.1 Girls with long hair should clip, tie, and keep their hair away from their face. If hair is long, it is preferably braided or gathered as in pony tail. Fingernails should be kept short. Wearing of makeup, colored powder, nail polish, hair coloring, jewelry, and other ornamentations reflecting vanity is prohibited. No big and dangling earrings are allowed. Tattoos on any part of the body are not allowed.
    8.2 Boys should sport a “barber's cut” for their hair and keep their fingernails short. The hair must not touch the eyebrows, the ears, and the shirt collar. Bangs must be worn short and should be neatly combed. No “skin head” or other fancy hairstyle and hair coloring are allowed. Boys are not allowed to wear earrings. Tattoos on any part of the body are likewise not allowed.

Section 8: Bringing of Cash and Electronic Gadgets to School

Parents / Guardians may let their children bring money to school as needed. Mobile phones may only be used in designated places and time. Only SHS students may bring laptops/tablets to school.

Section 9: Prohibition on the Holding of Class Parties and Giving of Gifts

The school prohibits the holding of parties not sanctioned by the school. Likewise, giving gifts of any kind to school officials, teachers, and staff on all occasions is prohibited pursuant to the provision of Article VIII Section 4 of The Code of Ethics of Professional Teachers.

Section 10: Use of School Name and Seal

Pupils / students, whether as individuals or as groups, are not allowed to use the school name and / or the school seal for any activity or event and / or in any printed materials such as but not limited to t-shirts, jackets, tickets, invitations, and announcements without the explicit authorization of the Vice President. This rule also applies to students' representation and use in contests, competitions, events, and the like. Using the school name or seal without the explicit approval of the Vice President is a serious offense. (Please see Part VI Section 10: Major Offense Notice).

Section 11: Curfew

To ensure the safety and order of the campus, a school-wide curfew is imposed starting at 6:30 p.m. Pupils / students are not allowed to stay on campus premises after 6:30 p.m. Pupils / students without official business are not allowed to loiter anywhere within the campus. Only pupils / students, who are members of a varsity / club, may be allowed to remain on campus after 6:30 p.m. provided that the club moderator / team coach is physically present with the team or club.

----------------------

PART VII
Honors and Awards

The school recognizes the meritorious performance of pupils / students in academics, deportment, and co / extra-curricular activities by giving out honors and awards at the end of every grading period and during Moving up/ Completion, Recognition and Graduation Ceremonies.

Section 1: Quarterly Honors Certificate for GS & JHS (Academics)

Honors Certificates are given to deserving pupils / students in recognition of their superior scholastic achievements during a quarter.

    Section Honors are awarded to pupils / students, who obtain a general average of 90 and above. Section Honors are ranked as follows: with Highest Honors, with High Honors, and with Honors. To qualify for the Section Honors, a pupil / student should have:
    a. no grade lower than 80% in any subject; and
    b. a conduct grade of at least B-

    Overall Honors are awarded to pupils / students, who obtain the top three highest general averages in their grade level. Overall Honors are ranked as follows: First Honors, Second Honors, and Third Honors. To qualify for the Overall Honors, a pupil / student should have:
    a. no grade lower than 80% in any subject;
    b. a general average of 90% and above;
    c. a conduct grade of at least B; and
    d. not been served any minor or major offense notice.

Section 2: Excellence in Academics for Kinder (Year-End Honors)

Excellence in Academics is given to deserving pupils in recognition of their superior scholastic achievements for the whole school year. It is awarded at the end of every school year.

Section 3: Excellence in Academics for GS & IHS (Year-End Honors)

Excellence in Academics is given to deserving pupils / students in recognition of their superior scholastic achievements for the whole school year. It is awarded at the end of every school year.

    Section Honors are awarded to pupils / students, who obtain a general average of 90% and above. Section Honors are ranked as follows: with Highest Honors, with High Honors, and with Honors. To qualify for the Section Honors, a pupil / student should have:
    a. no grade lower than 80% in any subject in all grading periods; and
    b. a conduct grade of at least B- in all grading periods.
    N.B.: Accelerated pupils / students are not qualified for Section Honors in that particular year when they are accelerated.

    Over-all Honors are awarded to pupils / students, who obtain the top three highest general averages in their grade level. Over-all Honors are ranked as follows: Overall First Honors, Overall Second Honors, and Overall Third Honors. To qualify for the Over-all Honors, a pupil / student should have:
    a. no grade lower than 80% in any subject in all grading periods;
    b. a general average of 90% and above;
    c. a conduct grade of at least B in all grading periods; and
    d. not been served any minor or major offense notice during the school year.
    N.B.: (1) Pupils / students who are more than two (2) years beyond the regular age limit of a particular grade level are not qualified for any award in Academic Excellence. (2) Accelerated pupils / students are likewise not qualified for any award in Academic Excellence in that particular year when they are accelerated.

Section 4: Semestral Honors For SHS

Honors Certificates are given to deserving students in recognition of their superior scholastic achievements after every semester.

    Strand Honors are awarded to students, who obtain a general average of 90 and above. Strand Honors are ranked as follows: Great Distinction, High Distinction, and Distinction. To qualify for the Strand Honors, a student should have:
    a. no grade lower than 80% in any subject; and
    b. a conduct grade of at least B.

    Overall Honors are awarded to students, who obtain the top three highest general average. Overall Honors are ranked as follows: Overall First Honors, Overall Second Honors, and Overall Third Honors. To qualify for the Overall Honors, a student should have:
    a. no grade lower than 80% in any subject;
    b. a general average of at least 90% and above;
    c. a conduct grade of at least B; and
    d. not been served any minor or major offense notice during the semester.

Section 5: Excellence in Academic Subjects for Grade 6 & Grade 10 (SCIENCE, MATHEMATICS, ENGLISH, FILIPINO, ARALING PANLIPUNAN, COMPUTER)

    Excellence in Academic Subjects is determined from the average of the grades in Grades 4,5, and 6/ Grades 7,8,9, and 10. The final grade is calculated with Academic Grade weighted at 75% and Representation/Participation in contest/s weighted at 25%.
    N.B.: The recipient of the award should have an average of conduct grade not lower than B-; and not have been served a major or a minor offense.

----------------------

PART VII
Honors and Awards

Section 6: Special Awards for Grade 12

    PCC GOLD is the ultimate recognition given to a student from a pool of Great Distinction awardees. The recipient should excel in academics and in curricular and extracurricular activities.

    EXCELLENCE IN COMMUNICATION ARTS is given to a student who has demonstrated proficiency in English and Filipino, in written and in oral communication, has shown creativity in expressing ideas in written or oral activities in different subjects, and has contributed to the school community.

    EXCELLENCE IN MATHEMATICS is given to a student who has the highest academic standing in Mathematics, demonstrated passion for Math expressed through excellent attitude toward Math work, and has shown enthusiasm, which positively impacts the other students in class.

    EXCELLENCE IN SCIENCE is given to a student who has the highest academic standing in Science, has demonstrated passion for Science expressed through excellent attitude toward Science work, and has displayed inquisitiveness about the environment, how things work, and how natural processes occur.

    EXCELLENCE IN SOCIAL SCIENCES is given to a student who has the highest academic standing in Social Sciences and has consistently demonstrated willingness and ability to contribute and participate in activities that promote the common good and achieve shared ends for others.

    EXCELLENCE IN BUSINESS MANAGEMENT is given to a student who has the highest academic standing in Business Management. He/She should demonstrate enthusiasm and actively participate in different business forums and seminars.

    EXCELLENCE IN ARTS (VISUAL, MEDIA, MUSIC, AND PERFORMING ARTS) is given to a student who has consistently demonstrated outstanding skills in the Arts and has exceptional creativity and craftsmanship exemplified through contribution to school's various functions and events.

    BEST RESEARCH PAPER is given to students who have exemplified excellence in the preparation and writing of their Research Paper - manifesting a strong review of key conclusions, clear integration of the thesis statement, and an insightful discussion of the impact of the material being researched.

    BEST IN ORAL DEFENSE is given to a student who has presented his/her research paper clearly, confidently and competently. He/She also has demonstrated depth knowledge, has incorporated new ideas, and has shown wit in answering questions though under pressure.

    AWARD FOR WORK IMMERSION is given to students who have shown high efficiency and consistency in the performance of their duties and responsibilities throughout their Work Immersion Program.

    PCC OUTSTANDING STUDENT LEADER AWARD is given to a student who has exemplified excellence in the various school projects and activities in which he/she has exhibited praiseworthy leadership.

    PCC OUTSTANDING STUDENT ATHLETE AWARD is given to the student athlete of the graduating class who has brought honors to the PCC community by bringing home awards and recognition through participation in high level competitions throughout his/her stay in PCC.

Section 7: Excellence in Conduct (Year-end Awards for G1-G5, G7-G9 & G11)

Excellence in Conduct award is given to deserving pupils / students who obtain the top three highest conduct grades in their class. Excellence in Conduct is awarded at the end of the school year during the Recognition Day. To qualify, a pupil / student should not have any failing grade in all subjects in all grading periods. The recipient should have never been meted any minor or major offense during the school year.

Section 8: Excellence in Conduct (Overall Award for G6, G10, & G12)

Excellence in conduct is awarded to a student of the moving up/graduating batch who has the highest average of the conduct grades from Grades 4 to 6; Grades 7 to 10; and Grades 11 to 12 respectively.

Section 9: Exemplary Service Award

Exemplary Service Award is presented to a graduating student who best exemplifies the school's time-honored value of service to others. This award recognizes the meritorious service of a graduating student to the school, to his / her fellow students, and to the community.

Section 10: Honors and Awards Committee

All honors and awards shall be reviewed and deliberated upon by the Honors and Awards Committee. The Honors and Awards Committee is composed of the Vice President as the chair and the English supervisor, the Chinese Supervisor, the Subject Area Coordinators, the Head Disciplinarian, the Head of Student Affairs, the Head of the Records Department, the SDO Director, and the faculty representatives as members. All decisions of the Honors and Awards Committee are final.

----------------------

PART III
Miscellaneous Guidelines

Section 1: Library Rules and Regulations

    SCHEDULE:

        For Kinder students, the library is open from 7:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. from Mondays to Fridays, and from 8:00 a.m. to 12:00 noon on Saturdays.

        For Grade School students, the library is open from 7:00 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. from Mondays to Fridays, and from 8:00 a.m. to 12:00 noon on Saturdays.

        For High School students, the library is open from 7:00 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. from Mondays to Fridays, and from 8:00 a.m. to 12:00 noon on Saturdays.

    Bags are not permitted inside the library. Pupils / students may leave their bags at designated places.

    Food and drinks are not permitted inside the library.

    The following must be strictly observed while inside the library: a. silence; b. cleanliness and orderliness; and c. courtesy and politeness.

    Chairs and library materials must be returned to their proper places after use.

    Rules and regulations on borrowing are contained in the Instructional Media Center (IMC) Manual available at the library.

    Books must be returned on the due date. A fine will be charged for each book per day.

    All pupils / students are held responsible for all library books and materials that they borrow. Any losses or damages to the books must be reported to the librarian immediately. Lost or damaged books must be replaced with a book of the same title and author.

    Tearing, destroying or writing on library books / materials is an act of vandalism. This shall be dealt in accordance with the policy on Code of Discipline.

Section 2: Computer Laboratory Rules and Regulations

    SCHEDULE: The Computer Laboratory is open from 7:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. from Mondays to Fridays, and from 8:00 a.m. to 12:00 noon on Saturdays.

    The following are not allowed inside the Computer Laboratory: a. bags; b. food and drinks; c. books, notebooks, folders, any form of data storage devices (unless required by the teacher).

    The following actions are not allowed inside the Computer Laboratory: a. chatting; b. playing of graphical games; c. accessing “for adults only” sites; d. accessing unauthorized sites. Sanctions shall be imposed on the above-mentioned violations.

    During the encoding of grades, the Computer Laboratory is not available for student's use.

    The following must be strictly observed while inside the laboratory: a. silence; b. cleanliness and orderliness; and c. courtesy and politeness.

    Willful destruction or tampering of the assigned computer settings is an act of vandalism. This shall be dealt with accordingly.

Section 3: Science Laboratory Rules and Regulations

    Food and drinks are not allowed inside the laboratory.

    Experiments can be performed only in the presence of a teacher.

    Students are expected to follow strictly the procedures before, during, and after an experiment.

    Rules on cleanliness and safety in the laboratory must be observed.

    Used chemicals must be disposed of properly in the assigned waste bottles before leaving the laboratory.

    Specimen/s and laboratory tools / equipment must be handled with extra care.

    In case of breakage or damage to laboratory materials and equipment, immediate replacement is imperative.

    When borrowing laboratory tools and equipment, a request form must be accomplished subject to approval by the concerned heads.

Section 4: Speech Laboratory Rules and Regulations

    REQUIREMENTS FOR THE STUDENTS:
    a. All students are required to bring their speech kits during their Speech classes. A Speech kit consists of a hand mirror, short folder with fasteners on both sides, pad paper, pencil, and USB.
    b. Mechanical pencil, penteel pen, and / or ballpen are not allowed inside the Speech Laboratory. These pens will be confiscated by the teacher/custodian.

    USE OF SPEECH LABORATORY
    a. Speech Laboratory may be used for any purpose other than holding of classes upon the approval of the English Supervisor.
    b. All students should adhere to the permanent seating arrangement assigned by the teacher.
    c. All students should be reminded to check their consoles and seats upon entering the Speech Laboratory. Vandalism should be reported immediately to the Speech Laboratory Custodian. The last student, who occupies the console before the reported vandalism, will be held responsible for the said offense.
    d. Eating, drinking, and sleeping are not allowed inside the Speech Laboratory.
    e. A student is not allowed to operate the console without the approval of the teacher.

----------------------

MONTHLY THEMES
The monthly themes are as follows: June is Love of School; July is Environmental Consciousness; August is Loyalty and Patriotism; September is Respect for Teachers; October is Diligence and Hard work; November is Cleanliness and Orderliness; December is Helpfulness and Cooperation; January is Politeness and Courtesy; February is Friendliness and Kindness; and March is Integrity and Honesty.

----------------------

校歌 (Awiting Pampaaralan / School Hymn)

Traditional Chinese Lyrics:
君不見 海水蒼茫 雲煙縹緲 南洋巨島間 吾學校 於斯造 輸舊化 納新潮 育群材 表率僑胞 勉為中外文明作嚮導

Filipino Lyrics:
Sa lupa ng malayang dagat at langit na bughaw
Ang ating paaralan nag mumulat gumagabay sa bagong tali ng dunong at kabihasnan.

English Lyrics:
On this land where the free roaring wave swiftly strike its shore
Our Alma Mater extends her guiding hands nurturing generations as vanguards of civilization.

----------------------

PART V
Student Activities: Programs and Guidelines

Student activities are classified as organizations, clubs, performing groups, and school sports. Participation in student activities is given credit in the deliberation for graduation honors.

Section 1: Organizations

There are two major organizations in PCC. The school paper, Tanglaw for the Manila campus and Scribe/Ang Patnubay for the Caloocan campus, and the Student Council.

Section 2: Clubs

Starting grade four, each PCC student is required to choose from among the list of co-curricular and extra-curricular clubs a club he/she wishes to join for the year. The groups meet regularly during activity class. An activity grade is given once every semester.

Section 3: Performing Groups

Artistically inclined pupils/students are encouraged to participate in the school's performing groups. Performing groups stage performances during school activities. They also represent the school in cultural and arts festivals around the country and abroad from time to time. Performing groups include the Salinlahi Dance Troupe/Footprints, Chinese Dance Troupe, PCC Glee Club, PCC Chinese Orchestra, and the PCC Theater Guild.

Section 4: School Sports

The school offers different competitive sports and athletic activities under the Sports Development Office (SDO) for various interests of the students. The PCC varsity teams are trained by varsity coaches and they participate and represent the school in various off-campus athletic meets, tournaments, and competitions. The following competitive sports are offered: Badminton, Table Tennis, Basketball, Track and Field, Chess, Volleyball, Pep Squad, Wushu, and Swimming.

----------------------

PART IV
Student Services

Section 1: Guidance, Counseling and Testing Services

The Guidance, Counseling and Testing Center assists the pupils / students achieve their total development as individuals by providing the following services:

    COUNSELING. Individual and group sessions are given to pupils / students with academic, personal, social, emotional or career concerns, and difficulties.

    TESTING. Aptitude, personality, and other standardized tests are conducted to predict, appraise, identify, and diagnose the individual needs and concerns of the pupils / students.

    INFORMATION AND ORIENTATION. Before the start of the school year, an orientation is conducted to familiarize pupils / students and their parents / guardians with the academic programs, policies, rules, and regulations. Personal, social, emotional, and career information is provided for the student's development and adjustment.

    VOCATIONAL AND CAREER GUIDANCE. This is provided to assist pupils / students and their parents / guardians in choosing a meaningful career in the future.

    RESEARCH AND EVALUATION. Research works, surveys, evaluations, and assessments are conducted for the improvement of instruction and the pupil's / student's performance and behavior.

    INDIVIDUAL INVENTORY. This involves the collection, recording, and utilization of the pupil's / student's information through interviews and psychological tests.

    FOLLOW-UP. This program is designed to check on the academic status of the Senior High School graduates. This service is essential in helping the school evaluate its curriculum.

Section 2: Academic Services

    TUTORIAL SERVICES. All pupils / students may avail of the tutorial services offered by the school. Kinder and Grade School tutorial services cover all subject areas. High school tutorial service is on a per subject basis.
    a. Inquiries and applications for tutorial services must be made directly with the Office of Student Affairs (OSA).
    b. The English Supervisor/Chinese Supervisor/ Kinder Supervisor will assign tutors to the pupils / students.
    c. All tutorial sessions are held in designated places on-campus. No tutoring must be done off-campus or at the pupil's / student's residence. Online tutorials may be allowed subject to the provisions stipulated by the school.
    d. Tutorial sessions are held Mondays to Fridays at 4:30 p.m. onwards during regular school days. A separate schedule is provided during periodical examination days.
    e. Tutorial fees shall be paid in full on the 28th day of each month prior to the actual tutorial services. Payment may be made at the Accounting Office or through the online platform designated by the school. Tutorial fee shall be paid monthly in full unless otherwise stipulated by the school. Tutorial services shall be discontinued for failure to pay the tutorial fee for one month.

    ONE-ON-ONE PARENT-TEACHER CONFERENCE. Parents / Guardians are encouraged to confer with the teachers the different concerns of their children. Parents / Guardians, who wish to seek a conference with the teacher, should first make an appointment with the OSA. Setting of appointment should be made in advance.

    ENRICHMENT PROGRAM. It is provided to train and further strengthen the skills / capabilities of the fast learners.

    REMEDIAL PROGRAM. It is provided to assist pupils / students improve and cope with their studies.

Section 3: Health Services

Health services are available to the pupils / students at the school clinic every school day and half day on Saturdays. Medicine is provided for common ailments. First aid is administered to pupils / students, who incur injuries while inside the campus. For cases that require immediate medical care, the pupil / student concerned will be brought to the nearest hospital.

Clinic Rules and Regulations

    SCHEDULE: The clinic is open from 7:00 a.m. to 6:30 p.m. from Mondays to Fridays, and from 8:00 a.m. to 12:00 noon on Saturdays.

    A pupil / student may be allowed to stay at the clinic only if the physician or the nurse sees a valid reason.

    The physician or the nurse may advise a pupil / student to go home if necessary. A gate pass coming from the Discipline Office is required before a pupil / student is sent home. The nurse shall inform the parents / guardians that the pupil / student is advised to go home.

    No pupil / student will be allowed to go home alone. The pupil / student will have to stay in the clinic until his / her parent / guardian fetches him / her.

Section 4: Food Services

The school cafeteria serves snacks and lunch, but pupils / students may bring their own food. Styrofoam containers are not allowed inside the campus.

----------------------

OUR MOST CHERISHED VALUES (CORE VALUES)
勤 诚 勇 爱 公
Diligence Honesty Courage Love Fairness

----------------------

PCC Vision

Our Vision

A responsive Chinese-Filipino institution that provides equal opportunity for excellent education towards the total development of globally competitive learners appreciative of their cultural heritage and proud of their identity.

学校愿景
本校是一所应时代需求的学校，为莘莘学子提供优质教育，使他们得以全面发展，成为具有全球竞争能力并以祖先传统文化为傲的人才。