PCC Educational Philosophy

The educational philosophy of PCHS is the product of the school's long history as the first and the oldest Chinese-Filipino secondary school in the country today. It is inspired by several intertwining factors: the unique heritage of the Chinese-Filipinos, their inherent oriental worldview, and the influence of many people—the alumni, administrators, teachers, service personnel, parents and students—who have had dedicated their loyalty to the school.

The educational philosophy of PCHS professes that:

Man is an incessant learner. He is in constant pursuit of learning and self-improvement. He by nature thirsts for knowledge and information. He thinks, reasons, questions and seeks to know the truth. Education is thus man's lifelong pursuit.

Education is universal. It does not discriminate nor distinguish the learners from one and the other. Hence, equal educational opportunity should be provided to everyone regardless of wealth, race, status or sex. Every learner who seeks education at Philippine Cultural High School is thus accorded with an equal opportunity to excel to the limits of his/her potential and ability.

The aim of education is to develop man so as to enable him to become useful citizen who will contribute to the building of just and humane society. Education develops the learner's potential and ability. More importantly, however, education cultivates the learner's physical, emotional, social, intellectual and moral aspects to the fullest so that he/she will become useful and productive civic-conscious citizen who embodies a deep sense of love and concern for the welfare of society.

Education trains man to see himself as an entity who shares an essential continuity with the experiences of other men throughout history. Education enriches man's sense of the past. It gives him firm foundation from where he can ground his cultural roots and establish a confident sense of identity.

Education teaches man to become self-reliant. Education is a practical preparation for life. As the Chinese proverb puts it: "If you give a man a fish, you'll feed him for a day; but if you teach him how to fish, you'll feed him for his entire life." Education thus prepares man how to live life productively and meaningfully. Education enables him to live and cope with the changes and challenges of the rapidly changing times.

本校的办学宗旨

菲律宾侨中学院是全国第一所华文中学。本校的办学宗旨与下列几点有着密切的关系：华菲独特的传统；东方人的世界观；关心本校发展的各方面人士—校友、行政人员、老师、服务人员、家长和学生。

菲律宾侨中学院的办学宗旨：

人不断地追求知识。为了提高自己的水平，应努力学习。人的求知欲是天生的。思考，推理，提出疑问，寻找真理，终身追求教育。

教育是普及的。不论经济状况、种族、文化背景、性别，每一个人都享有获得教育的权利。到菲律宾侨中学院学习的学生将拥有平等的机会，发掘自己的潜能，提高自己的能力。

教育的目标是培育人成为国家有用的公民，为建设一个公正、人道的社会而作出贡献。学生的才能因为教育才得以发展。教育更进一步培养学生的身心，使他们在德、智、体、群、美等方面都得到全面的发展，将来成为热爱国家、关心社会的好公民。

通过教育，借鉴历史，丰富自己。教育加强人们对过去的认知，使他们拥有厚实的文化背景，对自己的身份加以肯定。

教育使人自力更生。教育是为了准备面对人生。俗语说：“给人一条鱼只能养活他一天；教人如何捕鱼可以养活他一生。”有了教育，就能过得有意义。教育不仅使人懂得如何面对变化无穷的世界，更使人懂得如何应付各种生活的挑战。