PART II
Academic Standards

Section 7: Written Works and Quarterly Assessment/Midterm and Final Exams

    The following tests are given to assess the academic performance of each pupil / student:
    a. Written works; and
    b. Quarterly Assessment/Midterm and Final Exams

    Written works are given according to the schedule (for grade school) and the quiz chart (for high school).

    The schedule of Quarterly Assessment/Midterm & Final Exams will be announced at least one (1) week before the actual exam date. The schedule will also be posted at designated bulletin boards.

    During Quarterly Assessment/Midterm & Final Exams, pupils / students are given rooms and seating assignments. Each pupil / student must observe the room and seating assignment accordingly.

    All co / extra-curricular activities are suspended one (1) week before the Quarterly Assessment/Midterm and Final Exams.

    In the event a pupil / student fails to take any of the scheduled written works/ Quarterly Assessment (major and minor subjects) / Midterm & Final Exams due to his / her absence, he / she must submit to the Discipline Office a letter of excuse written by his / her parents / guardians. The Discipline Office shall issue a clearance before a pupil / student will be allowed to take a make-up written work / quarterly assessment. Make up written work / quarterly assessment must be taken within five (5) school days upon his / her return. A five percent (5%) deduction will be made on any make up written works/quarterly assessment. However, no deduction will be made on absences due to hospitalization; medical operations; communicable diseases such as chicken pox, mumps, measles, sore eyes, hepatitis, SARS, Covid-19, and dengue (medical certificate must be presented); and interment of immediate family members.

    During Quarterly Assessment/Midterm and Final Exams, the following must be observed:
    a. Intellectual honesty and integrity must be observed at all times. Any form of cheating is not tolerated and shall be dealt with strictly. A pupil / student, who is involved in cheating, shall automatically receive the lowest possible grade for that particular test. In addition, he / she shall be given a major offense notice and a conduct grade deduction.
    b. Unless the proctor gives his / her permission, a pupil / student should not leave his / her assigned seat. He / She is also not allowed to leave the classroom during the course of the examination without the proctor's permission.
    c. Absolute silence must be strictly observed. Talking to seatmates or turning one's head in any direction may be construed as cheating.
    d. The desk must be kept free of anything other than the test paper, pens / pencils, erasers, and those materials allowed by the proctor.
    e. Violation of examination rules / proctor's instructions will warrant appropriate sanction.
    f. For pupils/students wearing incomplete uniforms, “No Exam Policy” shall be strictly implemented.
    g. Latecomers will not be given an extension. All papers must be submitted on time.

    Guidelines on Student Incentives and Exemption
    A. Contestants and School Representatives

        All contest representatives (academic or non-academic), performers (dancers or singers), scouting representatives, and representatives in school-approved seminars and leadership trainings are exempted from all the activities (recitation, seatwork, exercise, project, experiment, theme, etc.) done on the day that they are out. They are likewise exempted from assignments given on the day that they are out and have to be submitted on the following day or on the day of their return to school. Highest possible grade applies. However, previous assignments due on the day of the contest, seminar, training, or performance still have to be submitted.

    All contest representatives are exempted from written works and quarterly assessment conducted on the day of the contest, Highest obtained grade rule applies. The student has the option to take the test.

    Performers, scouting representatives, and representatives to seminars and leadership trainings are not exempted from written works and quarterly assessment. They will be given a maximum of five days upon return to take the make-up test/s with no deduction.

    Contestants of international competitions will be exempted from written works or quarterly assessment on the following day of their arrival (if arrival is a few hours after midnight of a particular day, the date before midnight is considered as the date of arrival).

    Contestants of out-of-town competitions will not be exempted from written works or quarterly assessment on the following day of their arrival. Students will be given a maximum of five days upon return to take the make-up test/s with no deduction.

    Contestants of local competitions (within Metro Manila area) will not be exempted from the written works or quarterly assessment on the following day after the competition. They are required to take the written works or quarterly assessment as scheduled. No grace period shall be given to them.

    A copy of the test paper should be given to the exempted pupil/student upon his/her return to school.

    All winning contestants in academic contests will be given corresponding point/s in the transmitted grade/s of the quarterly assessment of the subject/s represented in the contest/s.

Incentive points for academic contests are: 
International Level: represented and won: 1st Place – 5 points, 2nd Place – 4 points, 3rd Place – 3 points; represented only: 2 points; 
National Level/ Regional Level: represented and won: 1st Place – 4 points, 2nd Place – 3 points, 3rd Place – 2 points; represented only: 1 point; 
Division / District Level: represented and won: 1st Place – 3 points, 2nd Place – 2 points, 3rd Place – 1 point; represented only: 0.5 point.


    The following table provides some academic contests regularly participated in for reference on the classification of contests. Contest/s not found in the table will be decided upon.

Contest classification examples are: 
National Level: ICAS, MTAP National Contest, AMC, IMAS, MTG, NSPC, Outstanding Student Award, IKMC-PH, Boys and Girls Week participation, National Parallel Challenge for Future Mathematicians, APPSAM Contests; 
Regional Level: MTAP Sectoral/ Regional Contest, RSPC; 
Division/District Level: Conference with contest, Interschool Competition, CMLI, MTAP Area/ Division Contest, YMCA, DSPC, FAMMPSA Olympiad.

    A student may obtain the above-mentioned incentive/s only for the school accredited contest/s provided that the score does not go beyond the highest possible score. However, a student may join contests in as many different subject areas as chosen by the school and still gain incentives for each of his/her events, provided that the first statement in this item stands.

    If a contest involves different subject areas, (i.e., Academic Bowl, Battle of the Brains), the incentive/s will be divided and distributed among the different subject areas involved in the contest.

    All non-academic winners will be given additional point/s in Conduct.

    Athletes who participate in multiple events under the same athletic tournament may only obtain incentive/s once, based on the highest award received among all events.

    Incentive/s for journalism-related contest/s will be allocated to the English subject, unless Filipino is the medium involved, in which case, the incentive/s will be allocated to the Filipino subject.

    Incentive/s for the participant/s of computer-related contest/s will be allocated to the computer subject.

    Varsity performers (Dance Troupes, Glee Club/Choir, Chinese Orchestra, Theater Guild) will be exempted from their PE classes. Their PE grades will be provided by their respective instructors and/or coaches.

    Varsity athletes are exempted from their MAPEH classes. Their MAPEH grades will be provided by their respective coaches.

B. Special Class Students
This scheme applies to the Special Class Program (SCP) in Math.

    A student included in the SCP may be exempted from the Fourth quarterly assessment in Math if he/she belongs to the top 50% of his/her class. Students will be ranked based on the average grade of the First, Second, and Third grading periods as reflected on their cards.

    Once exempted, the quarterly assessment score for the Fourth grading period will be based on the highest grade obtained by the pupil/student among all his/her quarterly assessment scores; however, the student has the option to take the fourth quarterly assessment.