PART II
Academic Standards

Section 4: Attendance and Punctuality

    Regular attendance in classes and school-sanctioned activities is required of the pupils / students. Attendance, moreover, should not only be regular; it should be punctual. Habitual and incorrigible tardiness and unexcused absences will be subjected to appropriate disciplinary action. (Please see Part VI Section 6: Disciplinary Sanctions on Tardiness and Part VI Section 7: Disciplinary Sanctions on Unexcused Absences)

    As per Manual of Regulations for Private Schools, Sec. 157.1, “a pupil / student, who incurs absences of more than twenty percent (20%) of the prescribed number of class or laboratory periods during the school year, should be given a failing grade and given no credit for the course,” a pupil / student, who has exceeded the allowed number of absences, will be automatically dropped from the roll.

    The class adviser and / or subject teacher shall take the attendance record every period.

    A pupil / student, who has been absent, must submit a letter of excuse executed by his / her parents / guardians to the Discipline Office that same day he / she reports to school. Requests for an excused absence should be done in writing. Failure to submit an excuse letter will deem the absence as unexcused.

    Absences may be classified either as excused or unexcused. After submission of the excuse letter, the Discipline Office shall determine whether the absence is excused or not.

    Every unexcused absence has a corresponding one (1) point conduct grade deduction. No deduction will be made on an excused absence due to sickness while a corresponding 0.5 point conduct grade deduction will be made on an excused absence due to personal reasons except for interment of immediate family members.

    Quizzes, seatwork, and assignments missed due to unexcused absences will not be given to any pupil/student. (See Part VI Section 7: Disciplinary Sanctions on Unexcused Absences)

    A pupil / student, who has a perfect attendance for one school year, will be rewarded with additional two (2) points on his / her overall conduct grade.

    Attendance during flag ceremony / morning assembly is a must. All pupils / students are expected to be in the classroom / formation in time for the flag ceremony / morning assembly. A pupil / student who reports to school after the flag ceremony / morning assembly will be marked absent for the flag ceremony / morning assembly. A pupil / student who has already reported to school but fails to proceed to his / her classroom / formation during the flag ceremony / morning assembly will also be marked absent from the flag ceremony / morning assembly. A pupil / student who is marked absent for the flag ceremony / morning assembly will be given a corresponding conduct grade deduction.

    All pupils / students are not supposed to leave the classroom in-between or exchange of periods without permission from the teacher. A pupil / student who comes in late during the change of periods will be marked tardy for that period.

    A pupil / student who has already reported to school but fails to attend his / her class and / or any school activity will be marked absent for that period. This is considered a cutting class.

    During recess, a warning bell will be rung two minutes before the class bell. All pupils / students are expected to proceed immediately to their respective classrooms. Pupils / students who fail to report to their classes after the class bell is rung will be considered tardy for that period.

    Tardiness, for whatever reason, is not excusable. Therefore, a pupil / student is responsible for all assignments and for the entire contents of the subject missed. No make-up will be given for any quiz or assignment that is missed due to tardiness.

    For online classes, absence for three (3) periods is considered as one day absence.

Section 5: Classroom Decorum

A good classroom atmosphere facilitates learning. Pupils / students and teachers help maintain the conduciveness of the classroom by observing the following:

    A bell signals the start and end of every class.

    Pupils / students shall report to class punctually and regularly.

    Every pupil / student is expected to come to class with the necessary school materials. The school strongly discourages parents / guardians from bringing to school anything left by their children at home.

    Unless with the instruction / permission from the teacher, pupils / students are not allowed to leave the classroom in-between or exchange of periods.

    Pupils / students must observe proper decorum at all times. Any disruptive activity such as making noise, horsing around, etc. during class or non-class hours is strictly prohibited.

    The classroom must be kept clean and orderly at all times.
    a. TV monitors, PC, bulletin boards, projector screens, blackboards, and chalk may be used only upon the instruction of the teachers or school authorities.
    b. As a sign of respect, pupils / students are not allowed to sit on the teacher's table.
    c. During dismissal, lights and fans must be switched off. Desks and tables should be kept aligned.
    d. Classroom doors should be left closed at all times.

    Order, silence, and promptness should be maintained while moving around the school premises.

    All pupils / students are not allowed to loiter around the campus during class hours.

    Unless with permission and supervision, certain premises around the campus, such as the gymnasium and the covered courts, are off-limits to pupils / students during class and non-class hours.

    Pupils / students are expected to show their parents / guardians all forms of communication, bulletins, letters, and memoranda coming from the school. All forms of communication with attached acknowledgment / reply slips must be returned to the class adviser within the specified date.

    For online classes, students/pupils are expected to turn on their cameras.