PART II
Academic Standards

Section 1: The School Calendar

    The school follows the calendar prescribed by the Department of Education (DepEd).

    Each school year has class days prescribed by DepEd, inclusive of class days which might be subsequently suspended due to holidays and calamities. The school year starts in June and ends in March.

    The school year is divided into two (2) semesters or four (4) quarters:

        For Kinder, it consists of a First Semester and a Second Semester; for Grade School (GS) and Junior High School (JHS), the First Semester includes the First and Second Grading Periods, and the Second Semester includes the Third and Fourth Grading Periods; for Senior High School (SHS), each semester is divided into a Midterm and a Final period.

Section 2: Schedule of Classes

    Classes are held from Mondays to Fridays. In some instances, remedial and special classes are held during Saturdays or after Chinese classes. Some student activities are also held after class dismissal or during Saturdays, Sundays or holidays.

    Unless a pupil / student is taking a special / remedial class or is required to come to school by the teacher, he / she will not be allowed to enter the school premises during Saturdays, Sundays or holidays.

    Pupils / Students, who wish to use any of the school facilities for practices, etc. during Saturdays and after class hours, should first secure approval from the concerned department before making arrangements with the Maintenance Officer. No pupil / student will be allowed to enter the campus without the permit from the Maintenance Officer. Likewise, no pupil / student will be allowed to conduct any activity without the presence of any teacher or school staff.

    CLASS HOURS:

        Class hours are: Kinder: 07:30 a.m. – 04:00 p.m.; Grade School (GS): 07:15 a.m. – 04:15 p.m.; Junior High School (JHS): 07:15 a.m. – 04:25 p.m.; Senior High School (SHS): 07:15 a.m. – 04:30 p.m.

N.B.: (1) The warning bell rings at 7:10 a.m. every day. Flag ceremony starts at 7:15 a.m.
(2) Grade School and High School pupils / students are required to attend the morning assembly as scheduled.
(3) Grade School and High School pupils / students are not allowed to leave the campus during recess and lunch break. Pupils / students may bring their own food to school. Snacks and lunch sets are also available at the school cafeteria.

    A school day begins with the flag ceremony and ends with the flag retreat. All pupils / students are required to attend both.

Section 3: Suspension of Classes during School and Legal Holidays

    Classes and offices are automatically suspended during school and legal holidays. Except when special arrangements are made with proper school authorities, the school is closed during holidays.

    During times of emergency, classes may be suspended, canceled or postponed either by the Vice President or the DepEd or local government officials. An official announcement will be posted at the gate of the school.

    Classes are suspended if announced by government agencies before classes begin.

    Automatic suspension of classes due to inclement weather:
    a. Signal No. 1 raised by PAG-ASA: classes for Kinder level are suspended;
    b. Signal No. 2 raised by PAG-ASA: classes for Kinder, Grade School, and High School levels are suspended.

    Where other calamities such as floods, volcanic eruptions, and earthquakes have caused serious damage in homes of families in the community: classes for Kinder, Grade School, and High School levels are automatically suspended.

    Should PAG-ASA raise typhoon signals that warrant the suspension of classes according to the guidelines set above (#4), or should the government agency announce the suspension of classes:
    a. between 7:30 a.m. to 10:00 a.m., classes will be held until 10:45 a.m.;
    b. between 10:00 a.m. to 12:00 noon, classes will be held until 12:10 p.m.;
    c. between 12:00 noon to 2:30 p.m., classes will be held until 2:35 p.m.;
    d. after 2:30 p.m., regular afternoon classes will be held.

    In the event of the suspension of classes during the examination period, the affected exams will automatically be rescheduled to the day when classes resume, pushing back all the scheduled examinations thereafter. Example: Classes are suspended on the first day of examination, Monday, and resume on Tuesday. In this case, the exams for Monday will be moved to Tuesday while the exams for Tuesday will be moved to Wednesday and so on.