PART VI
Code of Discipline

The school's Code of Discipline ensures that the overall environment of the campus is orderly and conducive to learning and personal growth. It prescribes a set of rules and regulations, which govern student behavior on or off-campus. Hence, all pupils / students are expected to know, observe, and follow the Code of Discipline at all times.

Section 1: The Discipline Office

The DISCIPLINE OFFICE (DO) is mandated with the establishment, interpretation, and enforcement of the school's Code of Discipline. It is headed by the Head Disciplinarian and is assisted by the discipline staff. However, all school officials, teachers, support staff, and security guards are duty bound to assist the Head Disciplinarian and discipline staff in ensuring that the school's Code of Discipline is enforced at all times.
The following are the mandates of the Discipline Office:
a. Ensure order inside the campus.
b. Determine the acceptability / unacceptability of behaviors of the pupils / students.
c. Investigate all complaints of pupil's / student's disruptive behavior.
d. Conduct summary proceedings and impose sanctions on minor disciplinary cases.

Section 2: The Student Discipline Committee

The STUDENT DISCIPLINE COMMITTEE is convened by the Vice President to hear and deliberate on complaints and impose sanctions on serious infractions and breach of the Code of Discipline. The committee is composed of the following: the Vice President as the chair and the Head Disciplinarian, the English Supervisor, the Chinese Supervisor, the Kinder Supervisor, the Subject Area Coordinators, the Head of Student Affairs, and the concerned faculty as members.

Section 3: Conduct Grade

The deportment of each pupil / student is graded under Conduct. Conduct grade is computed every grading period.

    The following are considered in the computation of the conduct grade:
    a. Grades given by the class adviser and all subject area teachers;
    b. The average of the consolidated grades given by the English and the Chinese teachers;
    c. Merits / Demerits from attendance and tardiness;
    d. Merits from rendering service to the school and the community, winning in non-academic contests, and doing good deeds; and
    e. Demerits from commission of offenses.

    Conduct grades are interpreted as follows: The letter mark A+ (甲上) corresponds to a numerical equivalent of 99-100%. The letter mark A (甲) corresponds to a numerical equivalent of 95-98%. The letter mark A- (甲下) corresponds to a numerical equivalent of 90-94%. The letter mark B+ (乙上) corresponds to a numerical equivalent of 86-89%. The letter mark B (乙) corresponds to a numerical equivalent of 85%. The letter mark B- (乙下) corresponds to a numerical equivalent of 80-84%. The letter mark C+ (丙上) corresponds to a numerical equivalent of 76-79%. The letter mark C (丙) corresponds to a numerical equivalent of 75%. The letter mark C- (丙下) corresponds to a numerical equivalent of 70-74%. The letter mark D (丁) corresponds to a numerical equivalent of 60-69%. The letter mark E (戊) corresponds to a numerical equivalent of below 60%.
    N.B.: The passing conduct grade is C.

    The school will immediately exclude / drop the pupil / student if:
    a. he / she obtains a conduct grade of E.
    b. he / she obtains a conduct grade of D twice in his/her entire stay in school.

Section 4: Merits for Representation in Competitions and Other Activities

Additional conduct grade is given to students, who represent the school and win in non-academic competitions and other activities:
For International Level competitions, first place receives 4 additional points, second place receives 3 points, and third place receives 2 points.
For National Level competitions, first place receives 3 additional points, second place receives 2 points, and third place receives 1 point.
For Regional/Division/District Level competitions, first place receives 2 additional points, second place receives 1.5 points, and third place receives 1 point.
Participation alone receives 0.5 points.
Note: The additional conduct grades will be added on the grading period contests are won.

Section 5: Disciplinary Probation

DISCIPLINARY PROBATION is a restraining measure that aims to help pupils / students develop self-discipline and improve their future conduct.

    Disciplinary Probation is imposed on:
    a. all new pupils / students who obtain a final conduct grade of (C) at the end of the school year;
    b. all pupils / students who obtain a final conduct grade of (C-) the previous school year; and
    c. all pupils / students who obtain a conduct grade of (C-) or (D) in any grading period.

    The pupils / students may be placed under Disciplinary Probation status anytime during the school year. The Disciplinary Probation status will be lifted at the end of the school year if the pupil / student concerned obtains a final conduct grade of C or higher.

Section 6: Disciplinary Sanctions on Tardiness

Tardiness for whatever reason is strongly discouraged. A deduction of 0.25 point from the conduct grade will be made every time the pupil / student comes to school or class tardy. Frequent tardiness will be dealt with strictly. A pupil / student, who has accumulated a total number of ten (10) tardiness within a quarter will be given a minor offense notice.
For 1 tardiness, the point deduction is 0.25.
For 2 tardiness, the point deduction is 0.50.
For 3 tardiness, the point deduction is 0.75 and a Tardiness Notice is issued.
For 4 tardiness, the point deduction is 1.00.
For 8 tardiness, the point deduction is 2.00.
For 10 tardiness, the point deduction is 3.00 and a Minor Offense Notice is issued.

Section 7: Disciplinary Sanctions on Unexcused Absences

Every unexcused absence has a corresponding one (1) point conduct grade deduction.
For 1 unexcused absence, the point deduction is 1.00.
For 3 unexcused absences, the point deduction is 3.00 and a Minor Offense Notice is issued.
For 9 unexcused absences, the point deduction is 9.00 and a Major Offense Notice is issued.

Section 8: Disciplinary Sanctions on Offenses Made

The school imposes appropriate and reasonable disciplinary sanctions such as suspension, exclusion, or expulsion to pupils / students, who disregard / violate the Code of Discipline.

    A pupil / student, who has been suspended for a cause, will be denied attendance in classes / school activities for a specified period of time. He / she will not be given make up for all quizzes / examinations, seat works, activities, exercises, etc. missed during his / her suspension.

    A pupil / student is excluded or dropped from the roll for being undesirable.

    A pupil / student, who has been expelled from the school, will be debarred from all public or private schools in the country.