PART I
General Policies and Procedures

Section 7: School Uniform

The official school uniform must be worn completely and properly every school day and / or as may be required during school activities on Saturdays, Sundays, or holidays. A pupil / student, who wears an incomplete school uniform, will not be allowed to enter the school and / or participate in school activities.

    BOY'S UNIFORM: The prescribed Kindergarten boy's uniform is polo jacket with checkered shorts or pants, black shoes, and white socks. The prescribed Grade School and High School boy's uniform is plain white polo (polo jackets are not allowed) over a white underment (plain white T-shirt or undershirt), plain comfort-fit khaki trousers with black belt, and white socks with black leather shoes. The polo should be neatly tucked. A complete uniform includes the wearing of the school ID and the school pin.

    GIRL'S UNIFORM: The prescribed Kindergarten girl's uniform is a checkered dress with white collar, black shoes, and white socks or white pantyhose. The prescribed Grade School and High School girl's uniform is plain white sportscollared blouse (polo jackets are not allowed), knee-length navy blue skirt with pleats, and white socks with low-heeled black leather shoes. The blouse should be neatly tucked. A complete uniform includes the wearing of the school ID and the school pin.

    The SHS students should wear the prescribed shirt with denim pants (navy blue/black) and rubber shoes on designated days.

    Ripped jeans and ripped shirts are not allowed at all times.

    During non-school days, all pupils / students are required to wear the school ID and decent attire when coming to school. Attires such as undershirts, garments with plunging necklines, sleeveless shirts / blouses, halter-tops, mini-skirts, shorts, slippers / thong strap sandals, etc. are not allowed.

    All Kindergarten pupils are required to wear the proper P.E. uniform on their scheduled P.E day, except when advised otherwise.

    All pupils / students are required to wear the proper P.E. uniform on their scheduled P.E. day except during the periodical examination week.

    The conventions of good grooming must be adhered to at all times. Discipline officers and teachers shall inspect the grooming of pupils / students regularly.
    8.1 Girls with long hair should clip, tie, and keep their hair away from their face. If hair is long, it is preferably braided or gathered as in pony tail. Fingernails should be kept short. Wearing of makeup, colored powder, nail polish, hair coloring, jewelry, and other ornamentations reflecting vanity is prohibited. No big and dangling earrings are allowed. Tattoos on any part of the body are not allowed.
    8.2 Boys should sport a “barber's cut” for their hair and keep their fingernails short. The hair must not touch the eyebrows, the ears, and the shirt collar. Bangs must be worn short and should be neatly combed. No “skin head” or other fancy hairstyle and hair coloring are allowed. Boys are not allowed to wear earrings. Tattoos on any part of the body are likewise not allowed.

Section 8: Bringing of Cash and Electronic Gadgets to School

Parents / Guardians may let their children bring money to school as needed. Mobile phones may only be used in designated places and time. Only SHS students may bring laptops/tablets to school.

Section 9: Prohibition on the Holding of Class Parties and Giving of Gifts

The school prohibits the holding of parties not sanctioned by the school. Likewise, giving gifts of any kind to school officials, teachers, and staff on all occasions is prohibited pursuant to the provision of Article VIII Section 4 of The Code of Ethics of Professional Teachers.

Section 10: Use of School Name and Seal

Pupils / students, whether as individuals or as groups, are not allowed to use the school name and / or the school seal for any activity or event and / or in any printed materials such as but not limited to t-shirts, jackets, tickets, invitations, and announcements without the explicit authorization of the Vice President. This rule also applies to students' representation and use in contests, competitions, events, and the like. Using the school name or seal without the explicit approval of the Vice President is a serious offense. (Please see Part VI Section 10: Major Offense Notice).

Section 11: Curfew

To ensure the safety and order of the campus, a school-wide curfew is imposed starting at 6:30 p.m. Pupils / students are not allowed to stay on campus premises after 6:30 p.m. Pupils / students without official business are not allowed to loiter anywhere within the campus. Only pupils / students, who are members of a varsity / club, may be allowed to remain on campus after 6:30 p.m. provided that the club moderator / team coach is physically present with the team or club.