PART I
General Policies and Procedures

Section 1: Student Admissions Committee

The Student Admissions Committee reviews the credentials of pupils / students seeking admission to the school. The Committee is composed of the Vice President as the chair, the English Supervisor, the Chinese Supervisor, and the Kinder Supervisor as the co-chairs, and the Head of Student Affairs, the Head Disciplinarian, and the Head of Records Department as members.

Section 2: Admission of New Pupils / Students

    Admission to PCC is granted to a qualified applicant on the condition that he / she and his / her parents / guardians agree to comply with the rules and regulations of the school.

    Former PCC pupils / students, who have transferred to other schools, may be readmitted as long as they are in good standing. However, they will be considered as new pupils / students and will be required to go through the entire admission process again.

    All applicants must apply in person at the Office of Student Affairs (OSA)/Kinder Office.

    The application form will be issued upon the submission of the following requirements: the original copy of the latest report card/ performance record; the original PSA copy of the birth certificate; a photocopy of the I-Card if the applicant is a foreigner (the original copy must be presented for verification); four (4) recent colored passport size photos of the applicant; and for applicants from a foreign country, documents authenticated by the Office of the Philippine Embassy/Office of the Consular official in the country, which has jurisdiction over the issuing school, including English translation of the entries particularly the name of student, subjects, grades, and grade level.

    Applicants will be admitted on the basis of the following: the result of the admission test; the result of the interview; good performance in the previous school year (academic and deportment); the age requirement; the availability of slots; and other criteria as may be set by the school.

    The Office of Student Affairs will post the list of successful applicants at the school bulletin board and email three (3) working days after the admission test is given.

    Accepted applicants will be issued an admission letter before paying the reservation fee, which is non-refundable but is deductible from the tuition fee. The same letter and the reservation payment receipt should be presented upon enrollment.

Section 3: Enrollment

    Pupils / students shall be enrolled using only the names appearing on their birth certificates, or for foreign pupils / students, their I-cards. No aliases will be allowed unless their use has been judicially approved.

    Enrollment is for one school year.

    A pupil / student is considered officially enrolled after full payment of the tuition fee; and submission of the appropriate admission requirements and / or transfer credentials.

    A pupil / student may withdraw voluntarily from the school after submission of a written explanation addressed to the Vice President. Transfer credentials will be issued after five (5) working days from the receipt of the written request from the parents / guardians of the pupil / student.

    The following rules regarding paid fees shall be applied for refunds: twenty percent (20%) will be deducted from the total assessed fees if a pupil / student officially withdraws before the school opening; forty percent (40%) will be deducted from the total assessed fees if a pupil / student officially withdraws within one week after the school opening; no refund will be given if a pupil / student withdraws on the second week after the school opening; and no refund will be given if a pupil / student withdraws anytime during the second semester.

    Cross enrolling from or to other schools is not permitted.

    A returning pupil / student, who has satisfactorily completed all the requirements, may be re- admitted.

Section 4: Enrollment Conditions for New Pupils / Students

    All new pupils / students are expected to abide by the rules and regulations, disciplinary measures, and other standards stipulated in this handbook as well as in other guidelines that may be issued by the school from time to time.

    All new pupils / students are expected to study diligently and to maintain a final rating of not lower than the passing mark prescribed by the school; otherwise, they shall be placed under academic probation or denied readmission the following school year.

    All new pupils / students shall not engage in any misdemeanor or any disruptive activity and shall maintain a final conduct grade of not lower than C (75%); otherwise, they shall be placed under disciplinary probation or denied readmission the following school year.

Section 5: School ID

Each pupil / student enrolled in the school is issued an official identification (ID) card.

    All pupils / students must wear their ID cards upon entering the school premises even on non-school days. The ID card must be worn at all times while inside the campus.

    The ID card is non-transferable. Lending or borrowing of ID cards, as well as using expired ID cards, shall be dealt with accordingly.

    Tampering with ID cards is an offense that warrants appropriate disciplinary sanction.

    Lost ID cards should be reported immediately to the Discipline Office. A fee will be charged for the replacement of the lost ID card.

    Pupils / students should submit their ID cards upon the demand of any school authority.

    No stickers or decorative materials should be attached on the ID card.

Section 6: School Records

The individual academic file of each pupil / student is kept at the Records Department.

    Upon request, the Records Department issues transcripts of records and certificates. All requests should be made formally in writing and / or by accomplishing the required form. All requests will be released after five (5) working days.

    Pupils / students, as well as their parents / guardians, guarantee that personal information provided in the school records is true and correct. Perjury is punishable under Philippine law.

    As may be required, parents / guardians should inform the school, in writing, any new personal information about themselves and all their children, who are enrolled in the school, like change in address and / or telephone number.