PART VII
Honors and Awards

The school recognizes the meritorious performance of pupils / students in academics, deportment, and co / extra-curricular activities by giving out honors and awards at the end of every grading period and during Moving up/ Completion, Recognition and Graduation Ceremonies.

Section 1: Quarterly Honors Certificate for GS & JHS (Academics)

Honors Certificates are given to deserving pupils / students in recognition of their superior scholastic achievements during a quarter.

    Section Honors are awarded to pupils / students, who obtain a general average of 90 and above. Section Honors are ranked as follows: with Highest Honors, with High Honors, and with Honors. To qualify for the Section Honors, a pupil / student should have:
    a. no grade lower than 80% in any subject; and
    b. a conduct grade of at least B-

    Overall Honors are awarded to pupils / students, who obtain the top three highest general averages in their grade level. Overall Honors are ranked as follows: First Honors, Second Honors, and Third Honors. To qualify for the Overall Honors, a pupil / student should have:
    a. no grade lower than 80% in any subject;
    b. a general average of 90% and above;
    c. a conduct grade of at least B; and
    d. not been served any minor or major offense notice.

Section 2: Excellence in Academics for Kinder (Year-End Honors)

Excellence in Academics is given to deserving pupils in recognition of their superior scholastic achievements for the whole school year. It is awarded at the end of every school year.

Section 3: Excellence in Academics for GS & IHS (Year-End Honors)

Excellence in Academics is given to deserving pupils / students in recognition of their superior scholastic achievements for the whole school year. It is awarded at the end of every school year.

    Section Honors are awarded to pupils / students, who obtain a general average of 90% and above. Section Honors are ranked as follows: with Highest Honors, with High Honors, and with Honors. To qualify for the Section Honors, a pupil / student should have:
    a. no grade lower than 80% in any subject in all grading periods; and
    b. a conduct grade of at least B- in all grading periods.
    N.B.: Accelerated pupils / students are not qualified for Section Honors in that particular year when they are accelerated.

    Over-all Honors are awarded to pupils / students, who obtain the top three highest general averages in their grade level. Over-all Honors are ranked as follows: Overall First Honors, Overall Second Honors, and Overall Third Honors. To qualify for the Over-all Honors, a pupil / student should have:
    a. no grade lower than 80% in any subject in all grading periods;
    b. a general average of 90% and above;
    c. a conduct grade of at least B in all grading periods; and
    d. not been served any minor or major offense notice during the school year.
    N.B.: (1) Pupils / students who are more than two (2) years beyond the regular age limit of a particular grade level are not qualified for any award in Academic Excellence. (2) Accelerated pupils / students are likewise not qualified for any award in Academic Excellence in that particular year when they are accelerated.

Section 4: Semestral Honors For SHS

Honors Certificates are given to deserving students in recognition of their superior scholastic achievements after every semester.

    Strand Honors are awarded to students, who obtain a general average of 90 and above. Strand Honors are ranked as follows: Great Distinction, High Distinction, and Distinction. To qualify for the Strand Honors, a student should have:
    a. no grade lower than 80% in any subject; and
    b. a conduct grade of at least B.

    Overall Honors are awarded to students, who obtain the top three highest general average. Overall Honors are ranked as follows: Overall First Honors, Overall Second Honors, and Overall Third Honors. To qualify for the Overall Honors, a student should have:
    a. no grade lower than 80% in any subject;
    b. a general average of at least 90% and above;
    c. a conduct grade of at least B; and
    d. not been served any minor or major offense notice during the semester.

Section 5: Excellence in Academic Subjects for Grade 6 & Grade 10 (SCIENCE, MATHEMATICS, ENGLISH, FILIPINO, ARALING PANLIPUNAN, COMPUTER)

    Excellence in Academic Subjects is determined from the average of the grades in Grades 4,5, and 6/ Grades 7,8,9, and 10. The final grade is calculated with Academic Grade weighted at 75% and Representation/Participation in contest/s weighted at 25%.
    N.B.: The recipient of the award should have an average of conduct grade not lower than B-; and not have been served a major or a minor offense.