PART VII
Honors and Awards

Section 6: Special Awards for Grade 12

    PCC GOLD is the ultimate recognition given to a student from a pool of Great Distinction awardees. The recipient should excel in academics and in curricular and extracurricular activities.

    EXCELLENCE IN COMMUNICATION ARTS is given to a student who has demonstrated proficiency in English and Filipino, in written and in oral communication, has shown creativity in expressing ideas in written or oral activities in different subjects, and has contributed to the school community.

    EXCELLENCE IN MATHEMATICS is given to a student who has the highest academic standing in Mathematics, demonstrated passion for Math expressed through excellent attitude toward Math work, and has shown enthusiasm, which positively impacts the other students in class.

    EXCELLENCE IN SCIENCE is given to a student who has the highest academic standing in Science, has demonstrated passion for Science expressed through excellent attitude toward Science work, and has displayed inquisitiveness about the environment, how things work, and how natural processes occur.

    EXCELLENCE IN SOCIAL SCIENCES is given to a student who has the highest academic standing in Social Sciences and has consistently demonstrated willingness and ability to contribute and participate in activities that promote the common good and achieve shared ends for others.

    EXCELLENCE IN BUSINESS MANAGEMENT is given to a student who has the highest academic standing in Business Management. He/She should demonstrate enthusiasm and actively participate in different business forums and seminars.

    EXCELLENCE IN ARTS (VISUAL, MEDIA, MUSIC, AND PERFORMING ARTS) is given to a student who has consistently demonstrated outstanding skills in the Arts and has exceptional creativity and craftsmanship exemplified through contribution to school's various functions and events.

    BEST RESEARCH PAPER is given to students who have exemplified excellence in the preparation and writing of their Research Paper - manifesting a strong review of key conclusions, clear integration of the thesis statement, and an insightful discussion of the impact of the material being researched.

    BEST IN ORAL DEFENSE is given to a student who has presented his/her research paper clearly, confidently and competently. He/She also has demonstrated depth knowledge, has incorporated new ideas, and has shown wit in answering questions though under pressure.

    AWARD FOR WORK IMMERSION is given to students who have shown high efficiency and consistency in the performance of their duties and responsibilities throughout their Work Immersion Program.

    PCC OUTSTANDING STUDENT LEADER AWARD is given to a student who has exemplified excellence in the various school projects and activities in which he/she has exhibited praiseworthy leadership.

    PCC OUTSTANDING STUDENT ATHLETE AWARD is given to the student athlete of the graduating class who has brought honors to the PCC community by bringing home awards and recognition through participation in high level competitions throughout his/her stay in PCC.

Section 7: Excellence in Conduct (Year-end Awards for G1-G5, G7-G9 & G11)

Excellence in Conduct award is given to deserving pupils / students who obtain the top three highest conduct grades in their class. Excellence in Conduct is awarded at the end of the school year during the Recognition Day. To qualify, a pupil / student should not have any failing grade in all subjects in all grading periods. The recipient should have never been meted any minor or major offense during the school year.

Section 8: Excellence in Conduct (Overall Award for G6, G10, & G12)

Excellence in conduct is awarded to a student of the moving up/graduating batch who has the highest average of the conduct grades from Grades 4 to 6; Grades 7 to 10; and Grades 11 to 12 respectively.

Section 9: Exemplary Service Award

Exemplary Service Award is presented to a graduating student who best exemplifies the school's time-honored value of service to others. This award recognizes the meritorious service of a graduating student to the school, to his / her fellow students, and to the community.

Section 10: Honors and Awards Committee

All honors and awards shall be reviewed and deliberated upon by the Honors and Awards Committee. The Honors and Awards Committee is composed of the Vice President as the chair and the English supervisor, the Chinese Supervisor, the Subject Area Coordinators, the Head Disciplinarian, the Head of Student Affairs, the Head of the Records Department, the SDO Director, and the faculty representatives as members. All decisions of the Honors and Awards Committee are final.