PART III
Miscellaneous Guidelines

Section 1: Library Rules and Regulations

    SCHEDULE:

        For Kinder students, the library is open from 7:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. from Mondays to Fridays, and from 8:00 a.m. to 12:00 noon on Saturdays.

        For Grade School students, the library is open from 7:00 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. from Mondays to Fridays, and from 8:00 a.m. to 12:00 noon on Saturdays.

        For High School students, the library is open from 7:00 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. from Mondays to Fridays, and from 8:00 a.m. to 12:00 noon on Saturdays.

    Bags are not permitted inside the library. Pupils / students may leave their bags at designated places.

    Food and drinks are not permitted inside the library.

    The following must be strictly observed while inside the library: a. silence; b. cleanliness and orderliness; and c. courtesy and politeness.

    Chairs and library materials must be returned to their proper places after use.

    Rules and regulations on borrowing are contained in the Instructional Media Center (IMC) Manual available at the library.

    Books must be returned on the due date. A fine will be charged for each book per day.

    All pupils / students are held responsible for all library books and materials that they borrow. Any losses or damages to the books must be reported to the librarian immediately. Lost or damaged books must be replaced with a book of the same title and author.

    Tearing, destroying or writing on library books / materials is an act of vandalism. This shall be dealt in accordance with the policy on Code of Discipline.

Section 2: Computer Laboratory Rules and Regulations

    SCHEDULE: The Computer Laboratory is open from 7:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. from Mondays to Fridays, and from 8:00 a.m. to 12:00 noon on Saturdays.

    The following are not allowed inside the Computer Laboratory: a. bags; b. food and drinks; c. books, notebooks, folders, any form of data storage devices (unless required by the teacher).

    The following actions are not allowed inside the Computer Laboratory: a. chatting; b. playing of graphical games; c. accessing “for adults only” sites; d. accessing unauthorized sites. Sanctions shall be imposed on the above-mentioned violations.

    During the encoding of grades, the Computer Laboratory is not available for student's use.

    The following must be strictly observed while inside the laboratory: a. silence; b. cleanliness and orderliness; and c. courtesy and politeness.

    Willful destruction or tampering of the assigned computer settings is an act of vandalism. This shall be dealt with accordingly.

Section 3: Science Laboratory Rules and Regulations

    Food and drinks are not allowed inside the laboratory.

    Experiments can be performed only in the presence of a teacher.

    Students are expected to follow strictly the procedures before, during, and after an experiment.

    Rules on cleanliness and safety in the laboratory must be observed.

    Used chemicals must be disposed of properly in the assigned waste bottles before leaving the laboratory.

    Specimen/s and laboratory tools / equipment must be handled with extra care.

    In case of breakage or damage to laboratory materials and equipment, immediate replacement is imperative.

    When borrowing laboratory tools and equipment, a request form must be accomplished subject to approval by the concerned heads.

Section 4: Speech Laboratory Rules and Regulations

    REQUIREMENTS FOR THE STUDENTS:
    a. All students are required to bring their speech kits during their Speech classes. A Speech kit consists of a hand mirror, short folder with fasteners on both sides, pad paper, pencil, and USB.
    b. Mechanical pencil, penteel pen, and / or ballpen are not allowed inside the Speech Laboratory. These pens will be confiscated by the teacher/custodian.

    USE OF SPEECH LABORATORY
    a. Speech Laboratory may be used for any purpose other than holding of classes upon the approval of the English Supervisor.
    b. All students should adhere to the permanent seating arrangement assigned by the teacher.
    c. All students should be reminded to check their consoles and seats upon entering the Speech Laboratory. Vandalism should be reported immediately to the Speech Laboratory Custodian. The last student, who occupies the console before the reported vandalism, will be held responsible for the said offense.
    d. Eating, drinking, and sleeping are not allowed inside the Speech Laboratory.
    e. A student is not allowed to operate the console without the approval of the teacher.