PART IV
Student Services

Section 1: Guidance, Counseling and Testing Services

The Guidance, Counseling and Testing Center assists the pupils / students achieve their total development as individuals by providing the following services:

    COUNSELING. Individual and group sessions are given to pupils / students with academic, personal, social, emotional or career concerns, and difficulties.

    TESTING. Aptitude, personality, and other standardized tests are conducted to predict, appraise, identify, and diagnose the individual needs and concerns of the pupils / students.

    INFORMATION AND ORIENTATION. Before the start of the school year, an orientation is conducted to familiarize pupils / students and their parents / guardians with the academic programs, policies, rules, and regulations. Personal, social, emotional, and career information is provided for the student's development and adjustment.

    VOCATIONAL AND CAREER GUIDANCE. This is provided to assist pupils / students and their parents / guardians in choosing a meaningful career in the future.

    RESEARCH AND EVALUATION. Research works, surveys, evaluations, and assessments are conducted for the improvement of instruction and the pupil's / student's performance and behavior.

    INDIVIDUAL INVENTORY. This involves the collection, recording, and utilization of the pupil's / student's information through interviews and psychological tests.

    FOLLOW-UP. This program is designed to check on the academic status of the Senior High School graduates. This service is essential in helping the school evaluate its curriculum.

Section 2: Academic Services

    TUTORIAL SERVICES. All pupils / students may avail of the tutorial services offered by the school. Kinder and Grade School tutorial services cover all subject areas. High school tutorial service is on a per subject basis.
    a. Inquiries and applications for tutorial services must be made directly with the Office of Student Affairs (OSA).
    b. The English Supervisor/Chinese Supervisor/ Kinder Supervisor will assign tutors to the pupils / students.
    c. All tutorial sessions are held in designated places on-campus. No tutoring must be done off-campus or at the pupil's / student's residence. Online tutorials may be allowed subject to the provisions stipulated by the school.
    d. Tutorial sessions are held Mondays to Fridays at 4:30 p.m. onwards during regular school days. A separate schedule is provided during periodical examination days.
    e. Tutorial fees shall be paid in full on the 28th day of each month prior to the actual tutorial services. Payment may be made at the Accounting Office or through the online platform designated by the school. Tutorial fee shall be paid monthly in full unless otherwise stipulated by the school. Tutorial services shall be discontinued for failure to pay the tutorial fee for one month.

    ONE-ON-ONE PARENT-TEACHER CONFERENCE. Parents / Guardians are encouraged to confer with the teachers the different concerns of their children. Parents / Guardians, who wish to seek a conference with the teacher, should first make an appointment with the OSA. Setting of appointment should be made in advance.

    ENRICHMENT PROGRAM. It is provided to train and further strengthen the skills / capabilities of the fast learners.

    REMEDIAL PROGRAM. It is provided to assist pupils / students improve and cope with their studies.

Section 3: Health Services

Health services are available to the pupils / students at the school clinic every school day and half day on Saturdays. Medicine is provided for common ailments. First aid is administered to pupils / students, who incur injuries while inside the campus. For cases that require immediate medical care, the pupil / student concerned will be brought to the nearest hospital.

Clinic Rules and Regulations

    SCHEDULE: The clinic is open from 7:00 a.m. to 6:30 p.m. from Mondays to Fridays, and from 8:00 a.m. to 12:00 noon on Saturdays.

    A pupil / student may be allowed to stay at the clinic only if the physician or the nurse sees a valid reason.

    The physician or the nurse may advise a pupil / student to go home if necessary. A gate pass coming from the Discipline Office is required before a pupil / student is sent home. The nurse shall inform the parents / guardians that the pupil / student is advised to go home.

    No pupil / student will be allowed to go home alone. The pupil / student will have to stay in the clinic until his / her parent / guardian fetches him / her.

Section 4: Food Services

The school cafeteria serves snacks and lunch, but pupils / students may bring their own food. Styrofoam containers are not allowed inside the campus.