OUR MOST CHERISHED VALUES (CORE VALUES)
勤 诚 勇 爱 公
Diligence Honesty Courage Love Fairness

MONTHLY THEMES
The monthly themes are as follows: June is Love of School; July is Environmental Consciousness; August is Loyalty and Patriotism; September is Respect for Teachers; October is Diligence and Hard work; November is Cleanliness and Orderliness; December is Helpfulness and Cooperation; January is Politeness and Courtesy; February is Friendliness and Kindness; and March is Integrity and Honesty.

SCHOOL COLORS
GREEN: Signifies the development of progressive thinking, learning, and attitude in education.
YELLOW: Symbolizes the cultivation of noble spirit, character, and personality.
绿：培植迈进技能
黄：养成高尚人格

THE SCHOOL SEAL
The five-petal Plum Blossom — the National Flower of China — represents the Chinese people, the forebears of the Chinese-Filipino in the Philippines. The Plum Blossom also represents the rich Chinese cultural heritage PCC is espousing among her students.

The Lighthouse — a familiar structure especially among the seafaring Chinese immigrants to the Philippines—represents Philippine Cultural College, the refuge of Knowledge-Seekers, the solace of the students, who desire to Learn.

The Rays represent education, learning, and enlightenment.

The Waves describe the struggles throughout the history of PCC.

The Sampan symbolizes the Huaqiao, representing the present day Chinese-Filipino community and their Sangley forbears, who came to trade, migrate, and settle in the Philippines aboard the Sampan as early as the 15th century. It also represents the PCC alumni, students, faculty and staff, who are all drawn to their alma mater for intellectual nourishment and moral guidance.

The pair of seagulls represents Freedom from intellectual bondage and ignorance by way of progressive thinking, learning, and attitude in education.

五片花瓣的梅花象征着菲律宾华人，也代表着丰富的中华文化。

灯塔象征着侨中学院，求知学子的依靠。

灯塔的光辉代表着教育、学习、知识。

海浪象征着侨中学院艰苦奋斗的峥嵘岁月。

早在十五世纪，华侨就乘搭船板来到了菲律宾。船板象征着华人及当今的菲华社会，也代表着求知欲强的侨中人。

一对海鸥象征着进步的思想、正确的教育观，以摆脱无知的束缚。